PTX1000 Packet  
Transport Router

Product  Overview

Increased interactions between 
people and machines are 
creating a deluge of traffic, 
with increasingly unpredictable 
patterns. These dynamics 
have intensified the challenge 
to accommodate growth with 
traditional network products 
and architectures. However, a 
new approach, based on both 
physical and virtual innovations, 
is required to help service 
providers stay ahead of growing 
traffic demands while remaining 
profitable. PTX Series Packet 
Transport Routers with custom 
ExpressPlus silicon, built from 
the ground up with SDN in mind, 
provide service providers with a 
Converged Supercore architecture 
that reduces TCO with highly 
flexible, high-performance 
innovations for easy deployment. 

Product Description 
The Juniper Networks PTX1000 Packet Transport Router transforms the core network 
with physical and virtual innovations that deliver unprecedented scale at a low cost. With 
the PTX1000, service providers now have the freedom to create new virtualized services 
anywhere in the network and elastically create a Converged Supercore architecture with 
precise traffic control without compromising the service experience. 

The Evolving Landscape

New traffic dynamics like mobility, video, and cloud-based services are transforming 
traditional network patterns and topologies. Stratified, statically designed and manually 
operated networks must evolve to meet constantly growing volumes of traffic quickly and 
economically. Many operators have seen profitability stagnate and TCO grow under the 
burden that growing traffic volumes are imposing. Service providers need to become more 
agile in order to optimize their existing network resources, shorten planning cycles, and 
remove rigid network layers.

•  Static scale: The service provider backbone handles the entire weight of the network’s 
traffic. Therefore, it is paramount that the core network can grow organically, along with 
the traffic, to meet escalating demands. Silicon, system, and SDN innovations for the 
core empower service providers to scale faster than the traffic demands in an elegant, 
elastic, redundant package—without requiring forklift upgrades.

•  Static architecture: Virtualized services and the explosion of cloud-based applications 

are creating increasingly unpredictable traffic patterns. To handle this unpredictability, 
service providers need a flexible and dynamic architecture across all layers. Rigid 
architectures hinder rather than enable programmable, predictable, and traffic-
optimized networks supporting any service, anywhere.

•  Power challenges: For service providers, the operational cost to transmit a packet 
through the core is far exceeded by the power requirements to move that packet. 
Service providers have determined that the total power draw over a few years exceeds 
the total cost of deploying the network infrastructure. Efficient core router power 
utilization requires a holistic ground-up engineering approach.

•  Facility challenges: Service providers cannot continue growing their facilities 

exponentially. They need innovations that provide a low-touch deployment model 
optimized around space availability, facility power requirements, and floor weight 
thresholds. Transport-oriented central office locations have the added requirement of 
European Telecommunications Standardization Institute (ETSI) standard depth, and 
any transit router innovation must be able to operate within these constraints.

1

Data SheetIn order to address these challenges, service providers need an 
innovative core router that delivers three defining principles: 
performance, deployability, and SDN programmability. With 
Juniper Networks® PTX1000 Packet Transport Router, Juniper 
introduces the industry’s only fixed core router that exceeds 
these requirements and easily fits into the service provider 
network, expanding the Juniper Networks Converged Supercore® 
architecture beyond lean label-switching router (LSR) 
deployments.

PTX Series

The Juniper Networks PTX Series Packet Transport Routers bring 
physical and virtual innovations to the service provider core 
network. These directly address concerns about operational 
expenditures while scaling organically to keep pace with 
growing traffic demands. In order for PTX Series routers to lower 
operational expenses, physical innovations at the core silicon 
are needed. PTX Series routers are powered by Juniper Networks 
ExpressPlus™ silicon, building upon the Juniper Networks Junos® 
Express silicon concepts of low consistent latency and wire-
rate packet performance for both IP traffic and MPLS transport 
without sacrificing the optimized system power profile. All of 
these concepts are incorporated into the design along with 
full IP functionality, preserving the spirit of the original Junos 
Express chipset. The ExpressPlus silicon is the first purpose-built 
telecommunication silicon to engineer a 3D memory architecture 
into the base design for more than 1.6 billion filter operations 
per second, dynamic table memory allocation for mammoth IP 
routing scale, and enormous power efficiency gains. 

The ability to address service provider core networking 
requirements of performance, deployability, and SDN control 
begins with the silicon. The integration of optical transport with 
100GbE coherent technology further improves the economics 
of the core network. With PTX Series routers powered by 
the ExpressPlus silicon, service providers can now deploy a 
Converged Supercore architecture with the efficiency of a lean 
core deployment featuring Juniper Networks NorthStar Controller, 
a robust, full-featured Internet backbone router, and a converged 
regional IP/MPLS core router with integrated 100GbE coherent 
transport for superior performance, elegant deployment, and 
SDN programmability.

PTX1000

For the first time, the PTX1000 lets service providers organically 
distribute peering points throughout the network with a rich 
IP/MPLS feature set without sacrificing performance and 
deployability—the main contributors to eroding TCO for service 

providers when peering. The PTX1000 expands the applications 
scope that the Converged Supercore architecture addresses, 
enabling service providers to implement a distributed core 
architecture for interconnecting growing cloud services. Service 
providers can distribute peering points to match traffic demand 
with an optimized core router without sacrificing performance or 
deployability. The PTX1000 is the industry’s only fix configuration 
core router in a compact, 2 U form factor, making it easily 
deployable in space-constrained Internet exchange locations, 
remote central offices, and embedded peering points anywhere 
in the network, including cloud-hosted services. 

The PTX1000 operates at 2.88 Tbps in a fixed core router 
configuration and supports flexible interface configuration 
options, including 288 x 10GbE ports via a quad small form-
factor pluggable plus transceiver (QSFP+) breakout, 72 x 40GbE 
ports via QSFP+, and 24 x 100GbE ports via QSFP28. Like the 
rest of the PTX Series, the PTX1000 is powered by ExpressPlus 
silicon, offering predictable IP/MPLS packet performance and 
functionality. ExpressPlus silicon also eliminates the complex 
sawtooth packet profile found in elaborate over-engineered 
network processing units (NPUs) deployed in other core 
routers. This delivers the distributed peering scale (2 million 
plus forwarding information base [FIB] and 5 million routing 
information base [RIB], also known as forwarding and routing 
tables, respectively), required to match expanding traffic demands.

Features and Benefits
Performance is one of the guiding design principles for the PTX 
Series routers. This focus empowers service providers with 
superior scale to match increased traffic demands and network 
engineering challenges with predictable system latency to 
improve the overall service experience, deliver best-in-class 
resiliency, and ensure that service providers meet strict customer 
service-level agreements (SLAs).

Deployability is the other guiding design principle for the 
PTX Series routers, focusing on power, space, and weight—
fundamental concerns that impact service providers’ operational 
budget with respect to growing traffic demands.

SDN programmability brings virtual innovations to the service 
provider core, while the NorthStar Controller is an open, 
standards-based solution that optimizes both the IP layer and 
the transport layer with precise SDN control, allowing service 
providers to automate and scale operations.

Table 1 summarizes the features available on the PTX1000 router.

2

Data SheetPTX1000 Packet Transport RouterTable 1: PTX1000 Features and Benefits 

Feature

System capacity

Feature Description

Benefit

The PTX1000 scales to 2.88 Tbps in a single chassis, 
breaking out into 288 10GbE, 72 40GbE, and 24 
100GbE interfaces.

PTX1000 routers give service providers the 
performance and scalability needed to outpace 
increased traffic demands. 

High availability hardware

The PTX1000 is engineered with hardware 
redundancy for cooling, power supply, and 
forwarding.

High availability (HA) is a critical requirement 
for service providers to maintain an always on 
infrastructure base for meeting stringent SLAs 
across the core.

Juniper Networks Junos operating system supports 
HA features that allow software upgrades and 
changes without disrupting network traffic.

High availability software

Packet performance

Ultra-compact 2 U form factor 

The PTX1000 features a resilient operating system 
that supports HA features such as graceful Routing 
Engine switchover (GRES), nonstop active routing 
(NSR), and unified in-service software upgrade 
(unified ISSU) for high availability.

Groundbreaking ExpressPlus silicon empowers 
the PTX1000 with unparalleled packet processing 
for both full IP functionality and MPLS transport, 
thereby leveraging revolutionary 3D memory 
architecture.

Exceptional packet processing capabilities help 
alleviate the challenge of scaling the network as 
traffic levels increase while optimizing IP/MPLS 
transit functionality around superior performance 
and elegant deployability.

With cutting-edge innovation in power and cooling 
technology, the PTX1000 is the only fixed-
configuration core router that provides 2.88 Tbps of 
capacity at a 2 U form factor.

Space efficiency is a critical requirement for peering 
Internet Exchange points, peering colocations, 
central offices, and regional networks, especially in 
emerging markets.

PTX1000 Specifications
Hardware
System throughput

•  Up to 2.88 Tbps

Forwarding capacity

•  Up to 2 Bpps

Maximum 10GbE port density

•  288

Maximum 40GbE port density

•  72

Maximum 100GbE port density

•  24

Dimensions (W x H x D):

•  17.4 x 3.46 x 31 in

•  (44.2 x 8.8 x 78.7 cm)

Rack units (U)

•  2 

Weight 

•  68.6 lb (31 kg)

Operating system

•  Junos OS

PTX1000 Packet Transport Router

CPU
• 

Intel Quad Core Ivy Bridge 2.5 GHz CPU, 16 GB SDRAM

Management and Precision Time Protocol (PTP) interfaces

•  1 small form-factor pluggable transceiver (SFP/SFP +) port 

or PTP Grandmaster

•  Fiber (SFP) or 10/100/1000BASE-T (RJ-45) Ethernet 

management port

•  SMB in, SMB out, 10 MHz in, 10 MHz out

•  One console port

•  USB 2.0 storage interface

Power

•  4x 1,600 Watt AC/DC power supply

Cooling

•  Front-to-back airflow

•  Three hot-swappable fan modules with redundant fans

Total packet buffer

•  24 GB

Latency

•  As low as 2.5 microseconds within a Packet Forwarding 

Engine (PFE)

•  As low as 5.5 microseconds across PFEs

3

Data SheetPTX1000 Packet Transport RouterEnvironmental Ranges

Environmental Compliance

•  Operating temperature: 32° to 104° F (0° to 40° C)

•  Storage temperature: -40° to 158° F (-40° to 70° C)

•  Operating altitude: Up to 10,000 ft. (3,048 m) 

•  Relative humidity operating: 5 to 90% (noncondensing) 

Restriction of Hazardous Substances (ROHS) 6/6

Silver PSU Efficiency

•  Relative humidity nonoperating: 5 to 95% (noncondensing)

Recycled material

•  Seismic: Designed to meet GR-63, Zone 4 earthquake 

Waste Electronics and Electrical Equipment (WEEE)

Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and  
Restriction of Chemicals (REACH)

China Restriction of Hazardous Substances (ROHS)

Telco

•  Common Language Equipment Identifier (CLEI) code

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services.

Automated Support and Prevention
Juniper’s Automated Support and Prevention consists of an 
ecosystem of tools, applications, and systems targeted towards 
simplifying and streamlining operations, delivering operational 
efficiency, reducing downtime, and increasing your network’s ROI 
running Juniper Networks Junos operating system. Automated 
Support and Prevention brings operational efficiency by 
automating several time-consuming tasks such as incident 
management, inventory management, proactive bug notification 
and on-demand EOL/EOS/EOE reports. The Junos Space Service 
Now and Service Insight service automation tools are standard 
entitlements of all Juniper Care contracts.

Warranty 
For warranty information, please visit www.juniper.net/support/ 
warranty/.

requirements

Maximum Thermal Output*

•  Maximum power draw: 1,425 W (AC, DC), 4,862 BTU/hr

•  Typical power draw: 1,050 W (AC, DC), 3,583 BTU/hr

Safety and Compliance

Safety 

•  CAN/CSA-C22.2 No. 60950-1 Information Technology 

Equipment—Safety

•  UL 60950-1 Information Technology Equipment—Safety

•  EN 60950-1 Information Technology Equipment—Safety

• 

IEC 60950-1 Information Technology Equipment—Safety (All 
country deviations)

•  EN 60825-1 Safety of Laser Products—Part 1: Equipment 

Classification

Electromagnetic Compatibility

•  47CFR Part 15, (FCC) Class A

• 

• 

ICES-003 Class A

 EN 55022 Class A

•  CISPR 22 Class A

•  EN 55024 

•  CISPR 24

•  EN 300 386

•  VCCI Class A

•  AS/NZA CISPR22 Class A

•  KN22 Class A

•  CNS 13438 Class A

•  EN 61000-3-2

•  EN 61000-3-3

•  ETSI 

•  ETSI EN 300 019: Environmental Conditions & Environmental 

Tests for Telecommunications Equipment

•  ETSI EN 300 019-2-1 (2000)—Storage

•  ETSI EN 300 019-2-2 (1999)—Transportation

•  ETSI EN 300 019-2-3 (2003)—Stationary Use at Weather-

protected Locations

•  ETSI EN 300 019-2-4 (2003)—Stationary Use at Non-

Weather-protected Locations

•  ETS 300753 (1997)—Acoustic noise emitted by 

telecommunications equipment

*Estimated; subject to change

4

Data SheetPTX1000 Packet Transport RouterAbout Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

EXPLORE JUNIPER
Get the App.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2017 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Juniper, and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice. APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetPTX1000 Packet Transport Router1000538-005-EN   May 2017