Junos Space Security Director 
QuickStart Service

Service Overview

Juniper Networks Junos Space 
Network Management Platform 
simplifies and automates 
the management of Juniper’s 
switching, routing, and security 
devices. It provides a centralized 
management plane for a single 
point of contact into the network, 
and a common management 
platform for managing and 
creating applications that meet 
specific needs.

The Junos Space Security Director 
QuickStart Service enables you 
to reduce the time to value from 
your Juniper product investment 
by providing the expert assistance 
of an onsite Professional Services 
engineer, who can provide basic 
installation and configuration 
assistance for your Junos Space 
Platform solution.

Service Description 
Built into Juniper Networks QuickStart services is a time-tested, industry standard Plan, 
Build, and Operate (PBO) approach that has been proven and refined with clients 
throughout the world’s most competitive industries. The Space Security Director QuickStart 
Service follows this logical, three-phase process: Plan (design and requirements review); 
Build (configure Space Platform and import Juniper Networks® SRX Series Services 
Gateways configuration); and Operate (knowledge transfer with integrated workflow 
review) to deliver rapid value.

During each phase plus the onsite knowledge transfer process, your Professional Services 
consultant will provide expert guidance and learning resources to assist your staff with the 
initial installation, configuration, and deployment of your Juniper Networks Junos® Space 
Network Management Platform solution with Security Director, and in preparing them for 
day-to-day operational scenarios going forward.

Phase 1: Plan

During this phase, Juniper Networks Professional Services experts collect information from 
your organization to plan the installation. They hold a project kick-off conference call with 
your technical team and Juniper’s Professional Services consulting team to define your 
product, application and user requirements, as well as your topology. Based on these 
findings, they will make recommendations about:

•  Deployment method

•  High availability option

•  Juniper Networks product family

•  Normal workflow and any special setup needed based on applications or resources

Phase 2: Build

In this phase, the Professional Services consultant works onsite to configure the Junos 
Space Platform appliance(s) for use in the production environment, and helps your 
technical staff become familiar with the setup and operation of the Space Platform 
appliance.

Customary tasks performed in this phase include:

•  Configure the system 

 - Apply initial management configuration and license 

 - Update code as required 

 - Install additional applications (Note: Only includes Junos Space Platform 

application fabric and Security Director configuration; additional applications can 
be installed but their configuration is exempt from this project)

1

Data Sheet•  Create discovery rule or directly import device into Space 

Phase 3: Operate

Platform inventory (can include up to two discovery rules or 
six direct device imports) 

•  Add devices to Security Director and import configuration 

(can include up to six total devices added to Security 
Director; Juniper Networks Network and Security Manager 
import is exempt from this service)

During this phase, the Professional Services consultant will:

•  Provide a review of the configuration and perform a 

knowledge transfer session of the Space Platform solution 
for customer personnel

•  Demonstrate basic discovery techniques and inventory tools  

•  Demonstrate addition and import of device configuration 

into Security Director

•  Demonstrate and explain basic element manipulation and 

policy tools 

Knowledge transfer is intended as a review of the customer’s 
localized implementation and configuration options. It is not a 
substitute for formalized training.

Features and Benefits
Table 1: Junos Space Security Director QuickStart Service Features and Benefits 

Feature

Feature Description

Benefit

Prequalification and recommendations

Information is collected about your requirements 
to develop a customized Space Platform 
installation plan.

•  Minimizes time and effort to develop 

installation plan and receive quality security 
information

Onsite Professional Services engineer

The Space Platform solution is deployed and 
configured at your operations center.

•  Accelerates, and optimizes the time to value of 

your Space Platform solution.

•  Reduces or eliminates object duplication; 

and can introduce a policy hierarchy for 
easy compliance to Security Statement 
requirements 

Onsite knowledge transfer

Your Professional Services engineer will 
cover topics such as basic configuration and 
troubleshooting, additional feature configuration, 
or other appropriate topics as requested by your 
staff.

•  Accelerates availability of new Space Platform 

solution

•  Accelerates readiness of employees
•  Creates fully informed IT staff for improved 

operational efficiencies

Table 1: Junos Space Security Director QuickStart Service Features and Benefits 

Juniper Responsibilities

Customer Responsibilities

Provide a Juniper Professional Services consultant who will:
•  Configure and deploy Space Platform at the organization’s 

Complete the Space Platform deployment questionnaire
•  Provide a designated project manager or point of contact to interface 

operations center 

•  Provide onsite knowledge transfer 

Service Deliverables 
This service will ensure that the Space Platform is operational 
and devices have been added to Security Director. It will 
also ensure that your staff has an understanding of basic 
configuration, troubleshooting, and additional feature 
configuration. This will accelerate your time to receiving value 
from your Space Platform solution.

with Juniper Networks on day-to-day issues and coordination of 
resources 

•  Provide external access to the Internet, internal access to your intranet, 
and access to the network equipment that the consultant will support
•  Provide access to applications, databases, and appropriate technical 

resources for consultant to perform duties successfully 

•  Place and secure the equipment to be installed in the appropriate rack
•  Provide all power and interface cabling to the equipment

Exclusions
This service is exclusively for the initial deployment of Junos 
Space Platform only. The service is limited to two discovery rules 
or six direct device additions to Space Platform inventory, and 
up to six devices added to Security Director. NSM device import 
is excluded. Service is limited to a two-node implementation 
with HA (optional). Customized engagements are available to 
extend or expand a deployment. No more than two hours will be 
allocated for object conflict resolution; default renaming action 
will be utilized once time has expired.

2

Data SheetJunos Space Security Director QuickStart Service•  Low-Level Design: Once the high-level design of a network 
is determined, the specifics need to be identified. The Low-
Level Design service identifies the optimal configuration and 
equipment needed to make your network a reality.

•  Testing Service: Prior to implementation of a new network, 

Juniper Networks Testing Service provides you with the 
opportunity to combine your knowledge of your network’s 
specific performance requirements with Juniper’s sound 
foundation of network design methodology and products 
to create a customized test environment that simulates 
your unique end-to-end deployment scenario. This lets 
you avoid the cost of creating and operating your own 
test labs, reduces your project risk, ensures a seamless 
implementation of new technology into your production 
environment, and accelerates your time to deployment.

•  Firewall Conversion Service: This service provides 

your organization with time-tested firewall conversion 
methodologies and automated processes that minimize 
data entry errors. Our firewall conversion consultant delivers 
infrastructure and business analysis, as well as design, test, 
and deployment guidance.

•  Junos Pulse Gateway QuickStart Service: This is a 

QuickStart service for the initial implementation of the 
Juniper Networks MAG Series Junos Pulse Gateways. It 
provides the expert assistance of an onsite engineer to help 
you get the most value from your Juniper investment in the 
shortest amount of time.  

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

Ordering Information 
To order the Juniper Networks Junos Space Security Director 
QuickStart Service, or for additional information, please contact 
your Juniper account manager. Before the service begins, a 
statement of work (SOW) will be created outlining the scope of 
effort to be performed.  

Juniper Consulting
As leaders in networks and security, Juniper’s consultants and 
engineers are uniquely qualified to assist service providers in 
designing, implementing, and optimizing security solutions. Our 
team appreciates the complexities and the subtleties inherent 
in large-scale internetwork design and can assist service 
providers and enterprises, or provide customized and integrated 
“turn-key” solutions. 

Juniper Networks Professional Services helps accelerate your 
network’s time to value, bringing revenue generating capabilities 
online faster for bigger productivity gains, faster rollouts of new 
business models and ventures, greater market reach, and higher 
levels of customer satisfaction. Your onsite staff will work closely 
with Juniper specialists, building operational capabilities and 
reducing your exposure to IT risks. As a result of our previous 
experience involving hundreds of customers around the world, 
Juniper Networks Professional Services is uniquely qualified 
to help you design, implement, and optimize your network 
for confident operation and rapid returns on infrastructure 
investments. These professionals understand today’s network 
and security demands and those that are just around the 
corner—for bandwidth efficiency, best-in-class security, solid 
reliability, and cost-effective scaling.

The use of Juniper’s consultants avoids the requirement for you 
to have the necessary technical and security audit and evaluation 
skills in-house. And the evaluation can be completed faster, 
as you are not forced to wait until internal resources become 
available, nor do you have to address the issue of conflicting 
project priorities.

Additional Services to Optimize  
Your Network 
Juniper Networks provides additional consulting services to 
consider along with the Junos Space Security Director QuickStart 
Service. A broad range of consulting and packaged services is 
available to help you enhance your network design and optimize 
your production environment. Services to consider in the early 
stages of your network review include:

•  Strategic Network Consulting: In the planning stage of 

your project, this service will assist you in determining 
a strategy for your network architecture and a plan to 
translate that strategy into an optimal solution. It is aimed 
at understanding your business requirements, determining 
the impact of the changes on your existing network 
infrastructure, and providing architectural guidance and 
recommendations to ensure that your network will be 
enhanced in a controlled manner.

•  High-Level Design: Implementing a new network or security 

project starts with an evaluation of the requirements and a 
detailed rendering of the architecture to be used. The High-
Level Design service defines the topology, protocols, and 
equipment required, mapping the design to your needs.

3

Data SheetJunos Space Security Director QuickStart ServiceAbout Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks challenges the status quo with products, 
solutions and services that transform the economics of 
networking. Our team co-innovates with customers and partners 
to deliver automated, scalable and secure networks with agility, 
performance and value. Additional information can be found at 
Juniper Networks or connect with Juniper on Twitter and Facebook.

EXPLORE JUNIPER
Get the App.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2016 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetJunos Space Security Director QuickStart Service1000449-003-EN   Nov 2016