Junos Space Service Insight

Product Overview

Junos Space Service Insight helps 
network operators manage Junos 
products by giving them insight 
about critical bugs and lifecycle 
notifications that are relevant 
to their devices. Using Service 
Insight, network operators can 
plan more easily and efficiently, 
because this critical information 
is provided to them automatically. 
Space Service Insight is part of 
Juniper Networks Automated 
Support and Prevention.

Juniper ASAP Solution Overview 
Juniper’s Automated Support and Prevention (ASAP) solution is a collection of 
applications, tools, and processes that utilize Juniper’s expertise to automatically resolve 
product issues, prevent outages, provide insights, and increase productivity for customers. 
The ASAP solution includes Junos Space Service Now, Junos Space Service Insight, Juniper 
Case Attachment Tool Suite and Juniper Support Services.

ASAP instills customer confidence by ensuring that if Juniper’s products do encounter a 
problem, it will be detected quickly and presented as an incident in Service Now without 
operator intervention. Customers can use Service Now to submit the incident as a new 
support case, or configure a “zero touch” Auto-Submit Policy that will do so automatically. 
ASAP establishes Juniper as the premier trusted support provider for networking equipment. 

Product Description 
Junos Space Service Insight is a critical component of Juniper’s end-to-end Automated 
Support and Prevention solution. Service Insight delivers the automated prevention 
capabilities of ASAP by enabling network operators to identify and plan key areas of 
concern and plan for upgrades. It operates with the automatic data collection and 
transmission capabilities of Junos Space Service Now to retrieve important Juniper product 
information from Junos-based device at customer locations and compares this to an 
extensive knowledge base of known bugs and End of Life (EOL) and End of Support (EOS) 
plans for Juniper products. 

Both Junos Space Service Insight work seamlessly with other ASAP components, including: 

•  Advanced Insight Scripts: Running on Junos OS-based devices, these are event-

specific incident-management and intelligence scripts written by experienced Juniper 
Networks Technical Assistance Center (JTAC) engineers. These intelligence scripts 
collect health and configuration data that is used by Service Insight. The AI-Scripts 
can detect over 400 events issues devices, collect required troubleshooting and 
diagnostic information, and send alerts to Junos Space Service Now. 

•  Juniper Networks Support Systems (JSS): These are expert systems located on 

Juniper Networks’ premises. They are securely integrated with the service-automation 
solution to link a variety of knowledge assets within the Juniper Customer Support 
infrastructure and the Juniper Customer Relationship Management (CRM) system. 
JSS also automates case escalation via Junos Space Service Now, case attachment 
with Juniper Case Attachment Tool Suite, and checks entitlement for Junos Space 
Service Now and Service Insight.

Your ideas. Connected.™

1

Data SheetJunos Space Service Insight Features and 
Benefits 
Proactive Bug Notification

•  Flag PBNs to users

•  Assign ownership of PBNs

•  E-mail PBN details to others

Customer with a Juniper Optimum Care contract can receive 
proactive bug notifications (PBN). Junos Space Service 
Insight delivers proactive bug notifications that are targeted 
to a customer’s specific network hardware and software 
configurations. Proactive bug notifications link known software 
and hardware issues to specific devices in a customer’s network, 
and can be a powerful tool to help address potential issues 
before they impact service. These notifications allow users to 
integrate their current operational workflow with all of Service 
Insight’s offerings. There is no need for another console, thus 
making operations simpler and more efficient. 

End of Life/End of Support Impact Analysis 

Space Service Insight distributes EOL/EOS notifications to 
you and automates the network impact analysis for these 
notifications. This greatly reduces the time needed to plan 
hardware maintenance and minimizes exposure to networks 
running EOS parts. The automated impact analysis of EOL/EOS 
notifications saves time otherwise spent in manual network 
analysis. Without Service Insight, operators will have to manually 
perform these intensive tasks manually and have less time 
available for strategic planning and network evolution.

Asset Tracking

Space Service Insight and Space Service Now work together to 
makes asset tracking easier by providing asset details for managed 
Juniper devices. It also collects information like serial number, 
part number, description, and support contract details. This saves 
numerous hours otherwise spent in manual tracking and provides 
up to date information on support contract coverage.

Flexibility in Configuration and Operation

With an easy to use Web-based GUI interface, Junos Space 
Insight Now is designed to simplify how information is received 
from users and displayed. This intuitive user interface allows for 
easy configuration and operation, enabling users to quickly ramp 
up and enable these applications and receive benefits from 
Automated Support and Prevention.

Network operators can utilize the flexibility configuration capabilities 
of Junos Space Service Insight to tailor their settings to:

•  Add and manage devices for Proactive Bug Notifications

•  View devices for which EOL reports and associated PBNs are 

available

•  Generate EOL reports

• 

Identify PBNs that can affect specific devices

•  View list of PBNs associated with devices added in the Junos 

Space Service Now

•  Delete PBNs

Security Built-in

Junos Space Service Now and Service Insight have been 
engineered to provide secure availability, integrity, and availability 
for all customer data collected, stored, and transported. These 
applications use accepted industry security protocols, standards, 
and techniques such as SSH and HTTPS for authentication and 
encryption of all communications.

Customers also have the option to control the extent of information 
shared with Juniper by adjusting the level of information sent to 
JSS through four levels of filtering. Using this shared information, 
Juniper is uniquely positioned to determine the potential risks to 
the customer’s network, perform detailed troubleshooting, and 
provide a superior customer experience. Refer to the Juniper Service 
Automation User Guide for more information.

Scalable Solution
Junos Space Service Now and Junos Space Service Insight are 
essential applications that run on the Junos Space Network 
Management Platform. Junos Space is implemented as a 
scalable fabric of physical or virtual appliances that work 
collaboratively. With this architecture, customers can expand 
or contract their fabric by simply adding or deleting nodes as 
needed. Each node is fully utilized as they work together to 
provide a scalable and resilient platform.

Why Automate with Juniper’s ASAP 
Solution?
Juniper Networks Automated Support and Prevention (ASAP) 
presents a compelling value proposition for Juniper’s customers 
— even those that already have a Resident Engineering team. 
ASAP is ushering in a new wave of operational efficiency for 
network operators. Its components like Junos Space Service 
Now, Junos Space Service Insight, and Juniper Case attachment 
Tool Suite (JCATS) work together to automate many essential 
operational tasks beginning with incident detection and 
diagnosis, then performing case creation tasks and accumulating 
the required troubleshooting data and attaching it to the case 
– without operator involvement. See figure 2 above for a view of 
the ASAP architecture.

Junos Space Service Now provides a simplified and efficient 
workflow solution for automated fault diagnosis that is based 
on the technical expertise from Juniper specialists. It does not 
require manual intervention when creating support tickets, which 
enables a dramatically reduced MTTR and operator time. Junos 
Space Service Now-generated cases lead to a higher quality, 
more actionable problem report than those initiated through the 
web or phone, ultimately reducing downtime and cost.

2

Data SheetJunos Space Service InsightJunos Product

Junos Space
Service Now

•  Automated Event Detection
•  Automated Data Collection
•  Automated Case Creation
•  Automated Case Attachment

Junos Space
Service Insight

•  EOL/EOS Updates
•  Proactive Bug Notiﬁcation
•  Asset Management

Juniper Case

Attachment Tool

Suite (JCATS)

Juniper Support
Systems (JSS)

•  Automated Case Management
•  Data Analysis / Mining

ASAP Operations

Manager

Case Management

Systems and Data Base

Figure 1: Juniper ASAP Architecture

Junipers’ Automated Support and Prevention combines 
embedded functionality within Junos and advanced technologies 
such as Advanced Insight Scripts and Expert Systems to create a 
powerful automation solution. ASAP’s scripts and expert systems 
are derived from support specialists, automating their methods 
and processes to optimize incident detection and resolution and 
relieve operators of many tasks. The ASAP solution delivers many 
benefits to customers, including:

• 

• 

• 

• 

Increased Productivity – Automated processes minimize 
operator time needed create and manage incident cases.

Increased Product Resiliency – Streamlined incident 
detection and diagnosis result in reducing MTTR and having 
equipment operational again.

Increased Awareness / Risk Reduction – Being informed 
of important product information such as bugs, health, and 
EOL/EOS dates empowers operators to plan and anticipate 
upcoming events.

Increased Confidence –.Knowing that Juniper products have 
integrated automated support capabilities will help assure 
customer to base their more critical networks on Juniper 
Networks products and technologies.

Operational Specifications
Client Browser Support

Supported browsers include Firefox, Internet Explorer and 
Chrome. See the Junos Space datasheet for specific details at 
www.juniper.net/assets/us/en/local/pdf/datasheets/1000297-
en.pdf.

VMware Version

Junos Space works with VMware vSphere products. See the 
Junos Space datasheet for specific detail at www.juniper.net/
assets/us/en/local/pdf/datasheets/1000297-en.pdf.

Juniper Product Support

Junos Space Service Insight is compatible with Juniper Networks 
devices running Junos OS 10.2 and later releases. 

Juniper Service Now and AI-Scripts will support the set of 
supported Junos versions, as defined at www.juniper.net/support/
eol/junos.html

Integration with Junos Space Network 
Management
Junos Space Service Now and Service Insight are part of Junos 
Space, a comprehensive network management solution that 
simplifies management of Juniper’s switching, routing, and 
security devices. With Junos Space, customers can simplify 
and automate the network, improve network agility, and deliver 
new services quickly - all from a single console. Junos Space is 
composed of the following three software elements:

•  Junos Space Network Management Platform – This 

provides comprehensive FCAPS and element management 
of Juniper devices. This improves operator efficiencies, 
providing a programmable interface and exposable API’s 
that enable the development and integration of third-party 
applications.

•  Junos Space Management Applications – This series 
of plug-and-play, domain-specific applications helps 
customers provision new services and optimize workflow 
tasks across thousands of Juniper devices.

•  Junos Space SDK (software development kit) – This is a 

programmable network solution that empowers customers 
to leverage the connections and intelligence imbedded in the 
network to create customized management solutions. 

To verify the compatibility of applications with the Junos Space 
Management platform, check the Junos Space Application 
Compatibility document at: http://kb.juniper.net/InfoCenter/
index?page=content&id=KB27572

3

Data SheetJunos Space Service InsightJuniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

Ordering Information
Junos Space Service Now and Junos Space Service Insight 
application software is available for no charge to all customers 
with a paid Juniper Care support contract. 

Juniper Service Now and Juniper Service Insight are available to 
all Juniper Support Services Specialist Partners.

Junos Space Service Now and Space Service Insight 
application along with release documentation can 
be downloaded at: https://www.juniper.net/support/
downloads/?p=servicenow#docs.

For More Information
For more information about Junos Space Service Now and other 
Juniper Operational services, please visit: www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services/services/technical-services/operate/#tab-
maintenance.

Please contact your Juniper Networks representative for more 
information.

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2015 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetJunos Space Service Insight1000350-004-EN  Oct 2015