Contrail Networking 

Product Overview

Contrail Networking is a simple, 
open, and agile cloud network 
automation product that 
implements an SDN architecture. 
With its scale-out microservices 
architecture, Contrail orchestrate 
virtual network overlays at the 
performance and scale of even 
the most dynamic and large 
clouds. Service providers can use 
Contrail Networking to accelerate 
the deployment of innovative new 
services, while enterprises can use 
it to increase agility by enabling 
the migration of applications 
and IT resources to more flexible 
hybrid cloud environments.

Product Description 
Enterprise IT is under increasing pressure to become agile and accelerate value to 
the business by adopting hybrid cloud architectures and delivering Infrastructure as a 
Service (IaaS), Container as a Service (CaaS), and Platform as a Service (PaaS) to their 
stakeholder lines of business. 

Service providers are also challenged to rapidly monetize new and differentiated services 
to generate revenue while reducing CapEx and OpEx. For many traditional network service 
providers as well as new cloud service providers, expanding their portfolio to meet the 
needs of Network Functions Virtualization (NFV) and XaaS (i.e., IT as a Service, Software 
as a Service, etc.) is seen as the path to increasing monetization and differentiation.

Enterprises and service providers expect to seamlessly migrate their existing physical 
infrastructure—incorporating millions of dollars of equipment and years of operational 
experience—to the cloud era without having to “rip-and-replace.”

Juniper Networks® Contrail Networking addresses these challenges with a pure software-
defined approach that spans the boundaries and use cases of most physical infrastructure, 
orchestration systems, DevOps tooling, virtualization runtimes, and operating systems. It 
unifies policy for network automation across those variables with seamless integrations 
for systems such as: Kubernetes, OpenShift, Mesos, OpenStack, VMware, a variety of 
popular DevOps tools like Ansible, and a variety of Linux operating systems with or without 
virtualization like KVM and Docker containers. Contrail Networking reduces the friction 
of migrating to cloud by providing a virtual networking overlay layer that delivers virtual 
routing, bridging, and networking services (IPAM, NAT, security, load balancing, VPNs, etc.) 
over any existing physical or cloud IP network. It also provides multitenant structure and 
API compatibility with multitenant public clouds like Amazon Web Services (AWS) virtual 
private clouds (VPCs) for truly unifying policy semantics for hybrid cloud environments.

For service providers, Contrail Networking automates network resource provisioning and 
orchestration to dynamically create highly scalable virtual networks and to chain a rich 
set of Juniper or third-party virtualized network functions (VNFs) and physical network 
functions (PNFs) to form differentiated service chains on demand. Integrated with a 
cloud IaaS stack such as OpenStack and OpenNFV, Contrail Networking enables the agile 
creation and dynamic scaling of service instances with high availability and reliability. 
Contrail Networking also makes it really simple to onboard network functions onto the 
platform without requiring any API integration or modifications to third-party VNF software.

Contrail Networking is equipped with always-on advanced analytics capabilities to provide 
deep insights into application and infrastructure performance for better visualization, easier 
diagnostics, rich reporting, custom application development, and machine automation. It 
also supports integration with other analytics platforms like Juniper Networks AppFormix 
and streaming analytics through technologies like Apache Kafka and its API.

1

Data SheetContrail Networking’s control and management systems are also 
designed as scale-out cloud-native software with a container-
based microservices architecture that supports in-service 
upgrades. Because of its capacity to scale, Contrail Networking 
can orchestrate virtualized, automated networking for the most 
demanding elastic cloud and NFV use cases. Based on proven 
open networking standards, open APIs, and the OpenContrail 
open-source project, Contrail Networking integrates with 
orchestration systems through plug-ins that accompany the 
control and management systems; for example, the OpenStack 
Neutron plug-in allows you to drive SDN equally well from the 
OpenStack or Contrail Networking GUIs and APIs. Delivering 
predictable business agility and a low cost of ownership, this 
cloud networking platform will enhance and future-proof your 
investment in creating IT as a Service (ITaaS) with DevOps 
automation and bringing applications to the cloud.

On the journey to an agile and connected future, it’s best to 
work with an innovative technology leader who understands the 
enterprise and service provider industries intimately—a partner 
with significant experience in both networking and IT who builds 
solutions based on open principles. Contrail Networking stands 
out by delivering software-defined cloud networking and cloud 
service automation in a way that gives customers freedom of 
choice, intelligent automation, and always-on reliability.

Architecture and Key Components
Contrail Networking is comprised of the following key components:

Contrail Networking management Web GUI and plug-ins 
integrate with orchestration platforms such as Kubernetes, 
OpenShift, Mesos, OpenStack, VMware vSphere, and with service 
provider operations support systems/business support systems 
(OSS/BSS). Many of these integrations are built, certified, and 
tested with technology alliances like Red Hat, Mirantis, Canonical, 
NEC, and more. Contrail Networking sits under such orchestration 
systems and integrates northbound via published REST APIs. It 
can be automatically driven through the APIs and integrations, or 
managed directly using the Web GUI.

Contrail Networking control and management systems, 
commonly called the controller, have several functions. Chief 
among them are the following functions:

•  Configuration Nodes: This function accepts requests 

from the API to provision workflows like adding new virtual 
networks, new endpoints, and much more. It converts these 
abstract high-level requests, with optional detail, into low-
level directions that map to the internal data model.

•  Control Nodes: This function maintains a scalable, highly 

available network model and state by federating with other 
peer instances of itself. It directs network provisioning 

Federated Controllers

BGP

Federation

Orchestration Nodes

Contrail

Orchestration

Plug-ins

REST

Contrail Controller

Scale-out control and
management container

micro-services

XMPP

L3
Federation

L2
Federation

XMPP

Compute Node 1

Contrail
vRouter

Compute Runtime

MPLSoGRE/UDP or VXLAN
(Virtual Overlay Networks)

Ethernet/IP

Undlerlay Network

WAN

Compute Node 2 . . .

Contrail
vRouter

Compute Runtime

Legacy Compute Node

Compute Runtime

Orchestration Integration

DevOps Tooling

KVM   Xen   VMWare   Docker   Linux BMS

VMWare   OpenStack   Kubernetes   Mesos   OpenshiŽ   DIY

Puppet Labs   Chef   Saltstack   Ansible   Juju   $fab

Figure 1. Juniper Networks Contrail Networking

2

Data SheetContrail Networking for the Contrail Networking vRouters using Extensible 
Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP). It can also 
exchange network connectivity and state with peer physical 
routers using open industry-standard MP-BGP which is 
useful for routing the overlay networks and north-south 
traffic through a high-performance cloud gateway router.

•  Analytics Nodes: This function collects, stores, correlates, 

and analyzes data across network elements. This 
information, which includes statistics, logs, events, 
and errors, can be consumed by end-user or network 
applications through the northbound REST API or Apache 
Kafka. Through the Web GUI, the data can be analyzed with 
SQL style queries.

Contrail Networking vRouter runs on the compute nodes of 
the cloud or NFV infrastructure. It gets network tenancy, VPN, 
and reachability information from the control function nodes 
and ensures native Layer 3 services for the Linux host on which 
it runs or for the containers or virtual machines of that host. 
Each vRouter is connected to at least two control nodes to 
optimize system resiliency. The vRouters run in one of two high-
performance implementations: as a Linux kernel module or as an 
Intel Data Plane Development Kit (DPDK)-based process.

Key Features 

•  Routing and Bridging: The forwarding plane provides 
line-rate L3 routing and L2 bridging in multitenant and 
virtualized or containerized environments. It is based in the 
software vRouter and hence completely agnostic to the 
underlay network.

•  Load Balancing: Equal-cost multipath (ECMP) load 

balancing with session affinity is built right into the 
vRouter’s forwarding plane. It distributes traffic across 
endpoints like VNF network services, such as virtualized 
firewalls for example. There is also an application-layer 
load balancing function built-in, as well as integrated with 
several external providers like F5 and Avi Networks.

•  Security and Multitenancy: The use of tenant domains 

and L3 VPNs to create virtual networks inherently provides 
a secure segregated environment, where virtual networks 
cannot talk to each other without policies. The vRouter 
has built-in distributed L3 and L4 firewall capabilities 
that allow users to define simple and abstract security 
policies between virtual networks. The policies can specify 
additional VNF services in the path to create what are 
commonly called service chains; for example, the Juniper 
Networks vSRX virtual firewall can sit between a public 
network and a private network or between two networks 
that need tight security supervision. Networking can also 
scale out instances of such VNFs with load balancing as the 
service chain traffic load requires it.

•  Elastic, Resilient VPN: L3VPN, Ethernet VPN (EVPN), and 

site-to-site IPsec are all delivered in software.

•  Gateway Services: Contrail interoperates with most physical 
or VM-based routing and switching equipment that supports 
L3VPN or EVPN with the appropriate overlay network 
encapsulation standards (VXLAN, MPLSoGRE, MPLSoUDP). 
This includes interoperability with Juniper Networks MX 
Series 3D Universal Edge Routers and QFX Series switches, 
as well as other vendors’ devices to seamlessly connect to 
the WAN or legacy networks and workloads.

•  High Availability: Contrail Networking components are 

made highly available and offer active/active redundancy.

•  Analytics Services: Insightful visualization and diagnostics 

of virtual overlay and physical underlay networks enable 
real-time and historical infrastructure analytics that can 
be consumed through REST APIs or Apache Kafka. Users 
can also very easily set up live packet captures of traffic 
between virtual networks using built-in GUI features.

•  API Services: REST APIs for configuration, operation, and 

analytics provide seamless integration with popular or 
customized orchestration systems. This includes AWS VPC 
API compatibility for seamless deployment of applications 
in a hybrid cloud platform.

Key Benefits

•  Simple: Contrail Networking is built with simplicity in mind. 
It is easy to learn, intuitive to use, and well automated for a 
simple day-1 setup with most cloud orchestration systems.

•  Open: Contrail Networking is developed in the 

OpenContrail open-source project and community of 
developers and users. Furthermore, by design it eliminates 
the risk of lock-in by leveraging long-standing, well-proven 
open industry standards.

•  High Scale and Performance: Contrail Networking is in 
production, standing up to the challenge of some of the 
most massive data center clouds.

•  United Hybrid Cloud Policy: Hybrid cloud is the ideal 
platform, but to achieve one IT platform, there must 
be functional and nonfunctional similarity between 
application platforms in both private and public cloud. 
Contrail Networking is an excellent choice of SDN solution 
to implement private cloud with software-defined 
infrastructure, and it can also be deployed atop any 
cloud, private or public, to create parity of environments, 
maximizing DevOps automation and application portability 
within the hybrid cloud platform.

•  Seamless Integration: Contrail Networking is well 

integrated, tested, and certified with a wide variety of 
software for orchestration, automation, operating systems, 
and virtualization or containerization. This means it is 
one SDN solution for all of your needs, cutting down the 
variables and assuring you compatibility with common 
legacy, current, and future technologies. Contrail Networking 
is also interoperable with industry-standard routing and 
switching systems to bridge from the overlay virtual 
networks to any other networks you have.

3

Data SheetContrail Networking Key Functionality
Open Source, Open Standards for Seamless Interoperability: 
Contrail Networking eliminates the need for rip-and-replace 
by supporting many standards-based protocols, enabling 
interoperability in a multivendor physical infrastructure to 
maximize investment protection. Contrail Networking’s only 
requirement of the underlay network is IP connectivity, which is 
simple to design at scale in an interoperable way. In addition, 
complete source code and product binaries are available under 
the Apache v2.0 open-source license for all customers and 
partners. For more details, please visit www.opencontrail.org. 

Network Virtualization: Contrail Networking provides a robust 
network virtualization solution by leveraging the L3VPN standard 
for L3 IP overlays, the EVPN standard for L2 overlays, and a 
multitude of data encapsulation standards like MPLS over 
generic routing encapsulation protocol (MPLSoGRE), MPLS over 
User Datagram Protocol (MPLSoUDP), Virtual Extensible LAN 
(VXLAN), etc. The virtual network segments provide a clean 
approach to microsegmentation and multitenancy and alleviate 
the challenges associated with a VLAN-based or L2-based 
segmentation approach.

Dynamic Service Chaining: Contrail Networking provides 
dynamic service chaining of virtualized or physical network 
functions that simplifies the creation, deployment, and 
management of differentiated network services. Connecting 
these network functions through proven open networking 
standards, Contrail Networking simplifies integration with 
Juniper and third-party service software and has nurtured a 
rich technology ecosystem of partners who offer services on 
top of the platform. It is a key ingredient that enables service 
personalization and deployment of massively scalable and highly 
available VNFs for NFV. 

Network Programmability and Automation: Contrail Networking 
implements the concept of “SDN as a compiler” by translating 
abstract high-level workflows into specific rules/policies to 
automate the provisioning of workloads and enable service 
chaining of network and security services. For example, you 
can request virtual machine connectivity without getting 
into the details of underlying elements like ports, VLANs, 
subnets, switches, routers, etc. In addition, a unified model for 
configuration, operation, and analytics is exposed through REST 
APIs, as well as libraries in various programming languages such 
as Python, Go, Javascript, and Java, to name a few. 

Infrastructure Analytics and Visualization: Contrail Networking 
provides insights into virtual and physical networks to simplify 
operations and decision making through proactive planning and 
predictive diagnostics. The analytics engine is designed for very 

large-scale ingest and querying of structured and unstructured 
data. It is exposed using REST APIs and a GUI-based query 
engine. This gives the user better insights to easily diagnose 
issues in the infrastructure, as it provides both real-time and 
historical information on application usage, infrastructure 
utilization, system logs, network statistics like flows, latencies, 
jitter, etc. In addition, users can employ REST APIs and modern 
bid data frameworks like Hadoop to write custom applications 
for reporting and infrastructure automation.

Contrail Networking Use Cases
Contrail Networking provides both service providers and 
enterprises with a dynamic and scalable network architecture 
to provision applications in a matter of seconds. Enterprises and 
service providers can use Contrail Networking to:

•  Deploy private or public clouds

 -   Provide multitenancy with complete isolation and role-

based access control (RBAC) capabilities

 -   Automate for rapid network provisioning and services like 

connectivity and load balancing 

 -   Enable self-service for application developers and 

DevOps teams

•  Deploy hybrid clouds and create VPCs in a service provider 

public cloud

 -   Connect data centers and clouds and move workloads 

seamlessly between private and public clouds

 -   Ensure virtual network services API compatibility with 

third-party cloud providers like AWS

•  Automate NFV through service chaining of any network and 

security service

 -   Provide service orchestration of any Juniper or third-party 

network and security service (physical or virtual)

 -   Enable cloud customer premises equipment (CPE) and 

managed network services like security, guest access, etc. 
for service provider IP-VPN customers

 -   Enable virtualized evolved packet core (EPC) for 

consolidation of services such as mobility management 
entity/Serving GPRS Support Node (MME/SGSN), 
S-GW, etc. 

 -   Provide virtualized subscriber or business edge with 

chaining of services, including deep packet inspection 
(DPI), security (firewall, anti-DDoS), proxies, and caching

4

Data SheetContrail Networking Specifications
Minimum System Recommendations and Operating 
Environment

•  Hardware: 64-bit dual x86 processor, minimum memory 12 

GB RAM

•  Storage: 30 GB Serial Advanced Technology Advancement 

(SATA), Serial Attached SCSI (SAS), or solid-state drive 
(SSD); Volume storage: 2 disks with 2 TB SATA

•  Network: 1 GB interface card (1)

•  OS: Linux OS (CentOS, RHEL, Ubuntu) 

Ordering Information
This product adheres to the Juniper Software Advantage pricing 
model; thus, please be advised of the following items that 
constitute an order:

•  Select a software license based on the number of CPU 

sockets required. The license is either subscription (fixed 
term) or perpetual (unlimited term).

 -   A subscription software license includes Juniper Care 

Software Advantage, entitling you to software updates 
and upgrades, 24x7 remote technical support, and 
online support.

 -   A perpetual software license excludes Juniper Care 
Software Advantage; the latter must be purchased.

• 

• 

If your order includes a hardware product/platform, select 
a hardware license based on your networking, connectivity, 
and/or security requirements (e.g., interface options, I/O, 
services). You may need to purchase additional licenses in 
support of the base hardware license (e.g., power cables, 
network interface cards).

If this is a virtual appliance/software product, you would 
not buy any hardware license from Juniper, but instead 
would procure the hardware elsewhere. For information 
on supported hypervisor(s) and VM requirements, please 
refer to the technical documentation for this product on our 
website (www.juniper.net) under the support section.

Juniper Networks products are sold directly as well as through 
Juniper partners and resellers. For information on how to buy, 
please visit: www.juniper.net/us/en/how-to-buy/index.page

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks challenges the status quo with products, 
solutions and services that transform the economics of 
networking. Our team co-innovates with customers and partners 
to deliver automated, scalable and secure networks with agility, 
performance and value. Additional information can be found at 
Juniper Networks or connect with Juniper on Twitter and Facebook.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2017 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetContrail Networking1000521-002-EN  Feb 2017