Junos Space Service Now

Product Overview

Junos Space Service Now frees 
network operators from time-
consuming support tasks. Service 
Now will automatically detect 
events on Junos-based devices 
and automatically initiate the 
support process. By using Service 
Now, operators will benefit from 
faster repair time, a support 
simplified experience, and 
decreased downtime.

Junos Space Service Now is part 
of Juniper Networks Automated 
Support and Prevention solution. 

Automated Support and Prevention Overview  
Juniper’s Automated Support and Prevention (ASAP) solution is a collection of 
applications, tools, and processes that utilize Juniper’s expertise to automatically resolve 
product issues, prevent outages, provide insights, and increase productivity for customers. 
The ASAP solution includes Junos Space Service Now, Junos Space Service Insight, Juniper 
Case attachmentment Tool Suite and Juniper Support Services.

ASAP instills customer confidence by ensuring that if Juniper’s products do encounter a 
problem, it will be detected quickly and presented as an incident in Service Now without 
operator intervention. Customers can use Service Now to submit the incident as a new 
support case, or configure a “zero touch” Auto-Submit Policy that will do so automatically. 
ASAP establishes Juniper as the premier trusted support provider for networking equipment. 

Product Description 
Junos Space Service Now is a critical component of Juniper’s Automated Support and 
Prevention solution. It leverages already running process within Junos-based devices 
to monitor the customer’s equipment, detect problems and other conditions requiring 
attention. Space Service Now automates incident detection, data collection, case creation, 
and case attachmentment functions.

When Junos Space Service Now detects an issue, it immediately collects necessary data, 
and opens a Juniper Technical Assistance Center (JTAC) ticket – completely automatically 
and without impacting performance. This automation minimizes the need for customers 
to be involved with problem analysis and correction. As a result, average mean time to 
resolution (MTTR) and time for a permanent fix are significantly reduced. 

Junos Space Service Now utilizes Advanced Insight Scripts (AI-Scripts) to automate event 
detection and initiate support responses. The AI-scripts are installed on Junos devices 
are based on the vast knowledge and expertise of Juniper Customer Service analysts 
and engineers and designed to replicate established responses to specific events. The 
AI-Scripts and can detect well-over 400 events on Junos products. AI-Scripts scripts 
automatically detect events based on their signatures and trigger Service Now to initiate 
support responses such as case creation. Within Service Now customers can create an 
event profile to select which events Service Now should act on and the desired response.

In addition to detecting operational issues, Junos Space Service Now collects data related 
to device health and configuration. This data is collected regularly and sent to Juniper 
Support Systems (JSS), which then delivers actionable insights and recommended actions 
provided in the form of targeted proactive bug notification along with EOL/EOS analysis. 
This analysis is delivered to customers using the Juniper Space Service Insight – another 
component of Juniper’s Automated Support and Prevention solution.

Your ideas. Connected.™

1

Data SheetProduct
Failure

Data
Capture

Case
Creation

Case
Attachment

Data
Analysis

Case
Update

Automated via Service Now

Automated via JCATS

Figure 1: Automated Troubleshooting and Support Capabilities

Junos Space Service Now Features and 
Benefits
Automation Capabilities 

Junos Space Service Now and Juniper Case attachmentment 
Tool Suite (JCATS) automate many essential support tasks 
required to resolve system issues: See figure 1

Figure 1: Automated Troubleshooting and Support Capabilities

Junos Space Service Now automates these following functions:

•  Event detection – Common product event detection 

processes within the Junos OS are used by Service Now to 
initiate its automation actions

•  Data capture – Data needed for troubleshooting the 

incident is gathered from affected products.

•  Case creation – Once an incident is detected, Service Now 

with signal Juniper’s trouble ticketing system to create a 
case for incident tracking

•  Case attachmentment – Relevant product data specific to 

the incident is gathered and attached to the case file

Juniper Case attachmentment Tool Suite (JCATS) automates 
these functions:

•  Data analysis – extensive analysis is performed of data 

captured to determine root cause.

•  Case update – Service Now will update the case with new 

information as obtained. 

Additional Features

Junos Space Service Now also provides:

•  The ability to initiate troubleshooting responses to only 

those events specified.

•  SDK for operational integration and customization

•  Fast access to knowledge resources detailing the cause, 
symptoms and corrective action for each fault detected 

•  The ability to open technical support cases on-demand for 

all devices managed including devices without AI-Scripts 
installed 

• 

Instant detection of hardware failures for RMA with 
streamlined RMA ticket creation 

Flexibility in Configuration and Operation

With an easy to use Web-based GUI interface, Junos Space 
Service Now is designed to simplify how information is received 
from users and displayed. This intuitive user interface allows for 
easy configuration and operation, enabling users to quickly ramp 
up and enable these applications and receive benefits from 
Automated Support and Prevention.

Many users have devices that serve multiple needs in different 
parts of the network, with each device operating at a different 
priority level. Service Now’s event profiles and notification 
features allow users to specify how to implement the automation 
of problem detection, responses, and information events. The 
event profile maps a set of AI-Scripts that will run in respond 
to a specified event. Thus, Junos Space Service Now has a 
tremendous amount of control available to users so it can be 
tailored to meet unique customer requirements. 

Scalable Solution

Junos Space Service Now and Junos Space Service Insight are 
essential applications that run on the Junos Space Network 
Management Platform. Junos Space is implemented as a 
scalable fabric of physical or virtual appliances that work 
collaboratively. With this architecture, customers can expand 
or contract their fabric by simply adding or deleting nodes as 
needed. Each node is fully utilized as they work together to 
provide a scalable and resilient platform.

Security Built-in

Junos Space Service Now has been engineered to provide secure 
connectivity, integrity, and availability for all data collected, 
stored, and transported. Junos Space Service Now uses accepted 
industry security standards and techniques such as SSH and 
HTTPS for authentication and encryption of all communications.

Customers also have the option to control the extent of 
information shared with Juniper by adjusting the level of 
information sent to JSS through four levels of filtering. Using this 
shared information, Juniper is uniquely positioned to determine 
the potential risks to the customer’s network, perform detailed 
troubleshooting, and provide a superior customer experience. Refer 
to the Junos Space Service Now User Guide for more information.

•  Options to configure BIOS validation on a device running Junos 

OSS/J Integration

•  A dampening mechanism to reduce noise from events for 

which a case is already opened

•  Asset management that provide clear understanding of 

Juniper product deployed and important related information

OSS/J delivers standards-based interface implementations (OSS/J 
APIs) and design guidelines for the development of component-
based OSS systems. OSS/J technologies provide the foundation 
for unifying legacy systems and new applications quickly and 

2

Data SheetJunos Space Service NowJunos Product

Junos Space
Service Now

•  Automated Event Detection
•  Automated Data Collection
•  Automated Case Creation
•  Automated Case Attachment

Junos Space
Service Insight

•  EOL/EOS Updates
•  Proactive Bug Notiﬁcation
•  Asset Management

Juniper Case

Attachment Tool

Suite (JCATS)

Juniper Support
Systems (JSS)

•  Automated Case Management
•  Data Analysis / Mining

ASAP Operations

Manager

Case Management

Systems and Data Base

Figure 2: Juniper ASAP Architecture

at low cost. The OSS/J APIs support multiple technologies and 
include Java, XML, and Web Services integration profiles.

Juniper’s eBonding Solution allows trouble tickets and updates 
system to be exchanged with Juniper’s trouble ticket system. This 
enable the customer to benefit from of the automation features 
with Space Service Now. 

The OSS/J building block for Space Service Now uses a WSI 
profile for exposing these trouble ticket APIs.

Why Automate with Juniper’s ASAP 
Solution?
Juniper Networks Automated Support and Prevention (ASAP) 
presents a compelling value proposition for Juniper’s customers 
— even those that already have a Resident Engineering team. 
ASAP is ushering in a new wave of operational efficiency for 
network operators. Its components like Junos Space Service 
Now, Junos Space Service Insight, and Juniper Case attachment 
Tool Suite (JCATS) work together to automate many essential 
operational tasks beginning with incident detection and 
diagnosis, then performing case creation tasks and accumulating 
the required troubleshooting data and attaching it to the case 
– without operator involvement. See figure 2 above for a view of 
the ASAP architecture.

Junos Space Service Now provides a simplified and efficient 
workflow solution for automated fault diagnosis that is based 
on the technical expertise from Juniper specialists. It does not 
require manual intervention when creating support tickets, which 
enables a dramatically reduced MTTR and operator time. Junos 
Space Service Now-generated cases lead to a higher quality, 
more actionable problem report than those initiated through the 
web or phone, ultimately reducing downtime and cost.

Junipers’ Automated Support and Prevention combines 
embedded functionality within Junos and advanced technologies 
such as Advanced Insight Scripts and Expert Systems to create a 
powerful automation solution. ASAP’s scripts and expert systems 

are derived from support specialists, automating their methods 
and processes to optimize incident detection and resolution and 
relieve operators of many tasks. The ASAP solution delivers many 
benefits to customers, including:

• 

• 

• 

• 

Increased Productivity – Automated processes minimize 
operator time needed create and manage incident cases.

Increased Product Resiliency – Streamlined incident 
detection and diagnosis result in reducing MTTR and having 
equipment operational again.

Increased Awareness / Risk Reduction – Being informed 
of important product information such as bugs, health, and 
EOL/EOS dates empowers operators to plan and anticipate 
upcoming events.

Increased Confidence –.Knowing that Juniper products 
have integrated automated support capabilities will help 
assure customer to base their more critical networks on 
Juniper Networks products and technologies.

Oerational Specifications
Client Browser Support

Supported browsers include Firefox, Internet Explorer and 
Chrome. See the Junos Space datasheet for specific details at 
www.juniper.net/assets/us/en/local/pdf/datasheets/1000297-
en.pdf.

VMware Version

Junos Space works with VMware vSphere products. See the 
Junos Space datasheet for specific detail at www.juniper.net/
assets/us/en/local/pdf/datasheets/1000297-en.pdf.

Juniper Platform Support

Juniper Service Now is compatible with Juniper Networks devices 
running Junos OS 10.4 and later releases. 

Juniper Service Now and AI-Scripts will support the set of 
supported Junos versions, as defined at http://www.juniper.net/
support/eol/junos.html

3

Data SheetJunos Space Service NowOrdering Information
Junos Space Service Now and Junos Space Service Insight 
application software is available for no charge to all customers 
with a paid Juniper Care support contract. 

Juniper Service Now and Juniper Service Insight are available to 
all Juniper Support Services Specialist Partners.

Junos Space Service Now and Space Service Insight 
application along with release documentation can 
be downloaded at: https://www.juniper.net/support/
downloads/?p=servicenow#docs.

For More Information
For more information about  Junos Space Service Now and other 
Juniper Operational services, please visit: www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services/services/technical-services/operate/#tab-
maintenance.

Please contact your Juniper Networks representative for more 
information.

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

Integration with Junos Space Network 
Management
Junos Space Service Now and Service Insight are part of Junos 
Space, a comprehensive network management solution that 
simplifies management of Juniper’s switching, routing, and 
security devices. With Junos Space, customers can simplify 
and automate the network, improve network agility, and deliver 
new services quickly – all from a single console. Junos Space is 
composed of the following three software elements:

•  Junos Space Network Management Platform – This 

provides comprehensive FCAPS and element management 
of Juniper devices. This improves operator efficiencies, 
providing a programmable interface and exposable API’s 
that enable the development and integration of third-party 
applications.

•  Junos Space Management Applications – This series 
of plug-and-play, domain-specific applications helps 
customers provision new services and optimize workflow 
tasks across thousands of Juniper devices.

•  Junos Space SDK (software development kit) – This is a 
programmable network solution that empowers customers 
to leverage the connections and intelligence imbedded in 
the network to create customized management solutions. 

To verify the compatibility of applications with the Junos Space 
Management platform, check the Junos Space Application 
Compatibility document at:  http://kb.juniper.net/InfoCenter/
index?page=content&id=KB27572

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2015 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetJunos Space Service Now1000331-004-EN  Oct 2015