Juniper Secure Analytics  
Risk Manager  

Product Overview

Juniper Secure Analytics Risk 
Manager is an integral component 
of a complete security intelligence 
solution that can help security 
professionals stay ahead of 
advanced threats. The ability 
to proactively quantify risk from 
vulnerabilities, configuration errors, 
anomalous network activity, and 
threats can help organizations 
prevent exploits that target high-
value assets and data.

Product Description 
Log management and security information and event management (SIEM) have become 
trusted solutions for network and security operators, enabling them to quickly detect and 
isolate security incidents and meet specific compliance requirements, as well as a growing 
number of regulatory mandates. And while the information provided by SIEM is critical for 
network and compliance security management efforts, it primarily detects exploits as they 
occur, rather than prioritizing what actions can be taken to prevent them from happening in 
the first place.

Juniper Secure Analytics Risk Manager correlates network topology information with 
data from Juniper Networks® JSA Series Secure Analytics Appliances, including asset 
configurations, vulnerabilities, network events, and flow patterns. This provides valuable 
insights that reveal, for example, which assets and vulnerabilities are causing the most risk, 
so IT staff can prioritize their remediation tasks. The Juniper solution can also help identify 
firewall and intrusion prevention system (IPS) misconfigurations that may allow attackers 
into the network and create inefficiencies in devices.

Juniper Secure Analytics Risk Manager automates risk management functions in mission-
critical areas, helping security professionals safeguard their organizations against an 
ever-growing spectrum of attacks, vulnerabilities, and compliance mandates. On today’s 
smarter planet, organizations require better visibility into their security policies, postures, 
and practices than ever before, because instrumented, interconnected, and intelligent 
businesses collect and use more information.

Figure 1. Juniper Secure Analytics Risk Manager topology viewer enables users to see network 

devices and relationships, including subnets and links.

Your ideas. Connected.™

1

Data SheetArchitecture and Key Components
Government regulations, industry guidelines, and corporate 
policies can all dictate specific network traffic and firewall 
policies that an organization must deploy, monitor, audit, and 
enforce. At a high level, the security objectives are normally pretty 
clear. These plans exist to achieve the desired security state, but 
the devil is—as usual—in the details.

Many network attacks succeed simply due to inconsistent 
network and security configuration practices, highlighting the 
need for automated network configuration monitoring and 
alerts for policy breaches. Other attacks succeed because 
unpatched vulnerabilities allow unfettered access to systems. 
Using traditional log management and SIEM solutions, where 
data typically exists in separate silos, organizations often lack 
the ability to easily correlate events and assess when network 
configurations are allowing traffic that is “out of policy.”

Juniper Secure Analytics Risk Manager offers an integrated, 
policy-based approach that can greatly improve the 
organization’s ability to asses information security risk through a 
single console shared with Juniper Secure Analytics and Juniper 
Secure Analytics Vulnerability Manager. Juniper Secure Analytics 
Risk Manager leverages a broad range of risk indicators, including 
asset, network, and security configuration data; network activity 
data; network and security events; and vulnerability scan results. 
It also provides other key capabilities as detailed below.

Vulnerability Risk Assessment

•  Quantification of risk: Helps assess vulnerabilities and 
asset configurations based on industry standards and 
environmental factors, to help prioritize remediation

•  Correlation of known vulnerabilities with network 

topology: Helps deliver a prioritized list of vulnerabilities to 
better assess which systems are most vulnerable to attack 
and should be remediated first

•  Advanced threat modeling, simulation, and visualization: 

Simulates potential spread of threats through the 
network by leveraging vulnerability, network topology, and 
connection data

Network Security Configuration

•  Detailed configuration audit: Helps improve consistency 

of firewall rules, including detection of shadowed rules, rule 
usage, and other configuration errors

•  Security focused network topology model: Enables 

automated monitoring of configuration rules

•  Configuration change comparison and auditing: Alerts users 

to risky or out-of-compliance configuration

Network Activity Monitoring

•  Advanced monitoring and analysis of network activity: 

Quickly flags out-of-policy traffic based on security events 
and network flow data

•  Fast and efficient search of network activity: Greatly 

reduces forensics efforts

• 

Intuitive visualization tool: Provides interactive analysis of 
current and historical network activity

Figure 2. With the policy engine in Juniper Secure Analytics Risk 

Manager, risk scores can be dynamically adjusted based on 

environmental factors.

Network Security Event and Configuration 
Correlation

•  Correlation of firewall accept and deny events with rules: 

Quantifies rule usage and effectiveness

•  Scheduled or on-demand collection of device 

configuration data: Provides a historical configuration 
change record

•  Advanced asset database correlation: Leverages 

information from a wide variety of network and security 
events and configuration sources, improving accuracy of 
results

Policy Monitoring to Improve Compliance

Juniper Secure Analytics Risk Manager features an automated 
policy engine that simplifies the assessment of a wide spectrum 
of information security and compliance policies. With an intuitive 
question-based interface, the policy engine integrates previously 
siloed risk indicators through regular monitoring of network 
assets for defined conditions. For example, the solution enables 
the correlation of asset vulnerability, configuration, and network 
activity, dynamically increasing or decreasing risk scores based on 
environmental factors, and enabling risk prioritized remediation. 

The Policy Monitor feature allows active evaluation of multiple 
security policies. Juniper Secure Analytics Risk Manager provides 
out-of-the-box policy templates to assist with identifying risk 

2

Data SheetJuniper Secure Analytics Risk Manageracross regulatory mandates and information security best 
practices. These templates are easily extended to align with 
an organization’s internal information security policies, and as 
exceptions are discovered, Juniper Secure Analytics Risk Manager 
can send e-mail, display notifications, generate a system logging 
event, or create an offense within JSA Series Secure Analytics 
Appliances. In addition, compliance reports include both policy 
exceptions and successes.

Device Configuration Management to Detect 
Changes and Profile Future Risks

Juniper Secure Analytics Risk Manager provides automated 
collection, monitoring, and auditing of device configurations 
across an organization’s switches, routers, firewalls, and intrusion 
detection system/intrusion prevention system (IDS/IPS) devices. 
Through an ability to normalize cross-vendor device configuration 
data, Juniper Juniper Secure Analytics Risk Manager provides 
detailed comparisons across security devices—including firewall 
rules and policies—to quickly identify when network traffic is 
inconsistent with a regulation, corporate mandate, or industry 
best practice.

Juniper Secure Analytics Risk Manager maintains a history of 
configuration changes and enables users to audit this history across 
the network. This powerful capability allows users to compare 
normalized or raw device configurations, over time, across a single 
device or multiple devices through a single user interface.

The collection of device configuration data is also instrumental 
in building an enterprise-wide representation of a network’s 
topology. Topology mapping can help an organization understand 
allowed and denied application activity across the network, 
resulting in improved consistency of device configuration.

Modeling and Simulation of Attacks and Network 
Configuration Changes

Juniper Secure Analytics Risk Manager helps organizations 
identify and prioritize their most significant risk areas. Simulations 
can help organizations understand the risk impact of proposed 
network configuration changes before they are implemented. For 
example, simulations can check network connectivity before and 
after a proposed network configuration change, such as adding a 
firewall rule to one or more devices.

Juniper Secure Analytics Risk Manager also offers threat 
modeling capabilities to simulate the potential spread of an 
exploit across the network by performing multistep correlations 
of at-risk systems with network traffic and topology data. 
Security teams can select a starting point for the attack, such 
as the Internet or an untrusted network, and then specify risk 
criteria, such as known system vulnerabilities or the protocol 
and port being used for the exploit. Juniper Secure Analytics Risk 
Manager then graphically displays the potential spread of the 
attack across multiple network tiers.

Figure 3. Juniper Secure Analytics Risk Manager attack simulation 

screen shows the potential spread of an exploit across the 

network.

Advanced Tools to Investigate Network Topologies, 
Traffic, and Forensics

Juniper Secure Analytics Risk Manager offers two network 
visualization security tools that provide unique, risk focused, 
graphical representations of the network. The end result of 
both of these visualizations offers network and security teams 
a revolutionary investigative capacity by providing vulnerability 
information before, during, and after an exploit. The first 
visualization tool, called the Topology Viewer, delivers detailed 
network topography views from both a routing and firewall 
configuration perspective. This insight comes from a unique 
combination of data sources, including device configuration, 
network activity data, and security events. IT teams can review 
the entire network or a portion of the network, and they can 
export views to image or Microsoft Visio formats.

The second visualization tool, called the Connection Monitor, 
quickly and efficiently analyzes historical network activity by 
automatically summarizing all firewall event and network flow 
data. Connection Monitor enables advanced traffic searches, 
including the ability to search on connections between hosts and 
networks using specific protocols and applications, as well as 
analyzing traffic to and from specific countries or geographical 
regions. These capabilities can significantly accelerate forensic 
and network traffic analyses.

Security Intelligence to Minimize Risk

Juniper Secure Analytics Risk Manager provides organizations 
with a comprehensive network security solution that not only 
enables them to access forensics during and after an attack, but 
also to proactively detect, prioritize, and remediate areas of high 
risk before they can be exploited.

The powerful security analytics, simulation, and visualization 
capabilities of Juniper Secure Analytics Risk Manager provide a 
unique opportunity for organizations to move away from day-
to-day security “firefighting” and instead adopt a proactive, 
risk-based methodology that greatly strengthens network and 
security offenses while minimizing exploit risk.

3

Data SheetJuniper Secure Analytics Risk ManagerOrdering Information
To learn more about how Juniper Secure Analytics Risk Manager 
can benefit your organization, please contact your Juniper 
Networks representative and visit www.juniper.net.

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

Log management and SIEM are necessary for a good network 
defense. By adding Secure Analytics Risk Manager, organizations 
gain additional security intelligence that enables them to go on 
the offensive against those who wish to exploit their assets and 
networks.

Features and Benefits

•  Visualize current and potential network traffic patterns 

with a network topology model, based on security device 
configurations

•  Quantify and prioritize risk with a policy engine that 

correlates network topology, asset vulnerabilities, and 
actual network traffic, enabling risk-based remediation and 
facilitating compliance

•  Centralize network security device management to help 

reduce configuration errors and simplify monitoring of 
firewall performance

•  Model threat propagation and simulate network topology 

changes to help improve overall security

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2016 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetJuniper Secure Analytics Risk Manager1000543-001-EN   May 2016