MX10003 3D Universal
Edge Router

Product Overview

As network operators prepare 
for digital cohesion as a way 
to augment user experience, 
they need a high-performance 
edge solution that helps them 
achieve their business goals while 
effectively handling current and 
future traffic demands. 

The MX10003 is a cloud-grade 
edge router offering ultra-high 
density and performance in a 
space- and power-optimized form 
factor, enabling the profitable 
delivery of a broad range of 
business, residential, mobile, 
cable, data center, and cloud 
services—all while seamlessly 
supporting traditional and 
emerging network architectures.

 

Product Description 
Service providers and cloud operators are making infrastructure investments today 
that pave the way for digital cohesion as a means of enhancing the user experience. At 
the same time, these providers and operators are building out their networks to ensure 
performance, efficiency, and agility at cloud-era scale. In order to achieve these business 
goals and succeed in their respective hyper-competitive markets, service providers and 
cloud operators need software-centric edge solutions that address current demand while 
offering investment protecting evolution to emerging technologies and growth.

Realizing this edge vision requires service-oriented edge platforms with the density and 
throughput needed to accommodate traffic growth driven by ubiquitous video content 
and media-rich business services, as well as the anticipated traffic growth generated by 
emerging technology trends like Internet of Things, connected vehicles, and smart cities. 

Juniper Networks® MX10003 3D Universal Edge Router is a cloud-grade platform that 
cost-effectively addresses the evolutionary edge and metro Ethernet needs of service 
providers, mobile, web-scale operators, and multiple-service operators (MSOs) with ultra-
high-density 10GbE, 40GbE, and 100GbE connectivity in a space- and power-optimized 
package. Delivering 4.8 Tbps of throughput in just three rack units (3 U), the MX10003 
delivers unmatched edge router density and performance while consuming just 0.8 W/Gb 
of throughput. 

The MX10003 is powered by the same programmable Junos Trio chipset and Juniper 
Networks Junos® operating system that powers the entire MX Series 3D Universal 
Edge Routers portfolio, leveraging nearly two decades of Juniper R&D investments and 
innovations that have transformed the economics of networking. Key features include a 
comprehensive suite of advanced automation and telemetry capabilities that serve as 
the foundation for future self-driving networks, as well as line-rate 100GbE Media Access 
Control Security (MACsec) encryption and integrated advanced timing. 

By combining service centricity, high throughput, and density with space and power 
efficiency, the MX10003 helps network operators overcome the challenges of a hyper-
connected world and profitably deliver the widest variety of services and applications. 

1

Data SheetArchitecture and Key Components
Routing Engine

Features and Benefits
Industry-Leading Port Density

Dual redundant Routing Engines (REs) on the MX10003 run the 
Junos OS, where they manage all routing protocol processes, 
router interface control, and control plane functions such as 
chassis component, system management, and user access 
to the router. These processes run on top of a kernel that 
interacts with the Packet Forwarding Engine (PFE) on Modular 
Port Concentrators (MPCs) via dedicated high-bandwidth 
management channels, providing a clean separation of the 
control and forwarding planes. 

The MX10003 is a full-featured single-chassis edge router that 
offers high density in a compact form factor (see Table 1). 

Table 1: MX10003 Maximum Line-Rate Port Density

Interface

10GbE

40GbE

100GbE 

Per MPC Port 
Density

Per Chassis Port 
Density

72

18

12

144

36

24

Modular Port Concentrators and Modular  
Interface Cards

Powered by the third-generation programmable Trio chipset, 
the MX10003 offers unprecedented bandwidth in a dense 
form factor. The MPCs provide broad routing, switching, inline 
services, subscriber management, and hierarchical quality of 
service (HQoS), among many other features. The MPCs also host 
Modular Interface Cards (MICs) that provide network connectivity 
and allow users to mix-and-match 100GbE, 40GbE, and 10GbE 
interfaces (using breakout cables) to flexibly and efficiently 
address their unique connectivity requirements. 

Power

The MX10003 power and thermal subsystems use advanced 
technology to optimize power efficiency without sacrificing scale 
or features. The power subsystem is highly resilient, allowing full 
power supply and power cable feed redundancy. 

Unmatched Network Availability

A comprehensive set of hardware and software features enables 
the MX10003 to deliver the highest levels of network availability 
for a 3 U edge router. The MX10003 supports 1+1 control plane 
redundancy and N+1 power supply module redundancy. In 
addition, Virtual Chassis technology supports chassis-level 
redundancy while allowing users to manage two interconnected 
routers as a single device. 

From a software standpoint, Junos OS runs each program 
independently in its own protected memory space, ensuring that 
individual processes do not interfere with one another. Unified 
in-service software upgrade (unified ISSU) support permits 
nondisruptive OS upgrades, while graceful Routing Engine 
switchover (GRES) and nonstop active routing (NSR) preserve 
the control plane and ensure continued packet forwarding 
without traffic interruption even if one of the REs fails.

Junos Operating System

Excellent Power Design and Efficiency 

Junos OS is a reliable, high-performance, modular network 
operating system that is supported across all of Juniper’s physical 
and virtual routing, switching, and security platforms, reducing 
the cost, complexity, and resources required to implement and 
maintain a Juniper-based network. With secure programming 
interfaces, the Juniper® Extension Toolkit (JET), versatile scripting 
support, and integration with popular orchestration frameworks, 
Junos OS offers flexible options for continuous delivery and 
DevOps-style management, helping service providers unlock 
more value from the network. 

For more details on Junos OS, please visit http://www.juniper.net/
us/en/products-services/nos/junos/.

The MX10003 offers excellent power design and efficiency, 
consuming just 0.8 W/Gb to ensure proper chassis operation 
under all conditions—critical when considering next-generation 
network elements. The MX10003 monitors power and 
temperature for each chassis component and shuts down 
interfaces and components when power or temperature 
thresholds are exceeded. 

Junos Telemetry Interface

The programmable Junos Trio chipset provides the power to 
monitor and collect data at the component level. It uses the 
Junos Telemetry Interface to stream this data in a scalable 
manner to monitoring, analytics, and performance management 
applications, as well as to Path Computation Elements (PCEs) 
such as Juniper Networks NorthStar Controller. The derived 
telemetry information identifies current and trending congestion, 
resource utilization, traffic volume, latency, and delay, which helps 
service providers detect issues and make informed decisions on 
network design, optimization, and investment. 

2

Data SheetMX10003 3D Universal Edge RouterIntegrated Timing

MX Series routers support highly scalable and reliable hardware-
based timing that meets the strictest LTE requirements, 
including Synchronous Ethernet for frequency and the Precision 
Time Protocol (PTP) for frequency and phase synchronization. 
Synchronous Ethernet and PTP can be combined in a “hybrid” 
mode to achieve the highest level of frequency (10 ppb) and 
phase (<1.5 uS) accuracy required for LTE-Advanced, eliminating 
the need for external clocks. 

Junos Fusion Provider Edge 
Junos Fusion Provider Edge enables MX Series routers to act as 
aggregation devices that provide cost-effective 1GbE support 
for Juniper Networks EX4300 Ethernet Switches and QFX5100 
data center switching platforms acting as satellite devices. All 
aggregation and satellite devices appear as a single, port-dense 
platform managed by a single IP address, significantly expanding 
the number of network interfaces supported by an MX Series 
router while keeping operations simple with full feature support. 

Junos Automation Toolkit 
The Junos Automation Toolkit, included in the Junos OS software, 
offers a suite of tools supported on all Juniper Networks switches, 
routers, and security devices. These tools leverage the native XML 
capabilities of Junos OS, including commit scripts, op scripts, 
event policies and scripts, and macros that help automate 
operational and configuration tasks. Automation saves time 
by performing repetitive operational and configuration tasks, 
speeding troubleshooting, and maximizing network uptime by 
warning operators of potential problems and automatically 
responding to system events.

Applications and Use Cases
Business Edge
The MX10003 offers the 10GbE and 100GbE interfaces that 
large enterprises need, as well as a comprehensive VPN 
toolkit to support feature-rich, standards-based, and secure 
internetworking for innovative business services. In addition to 
basic L2/L3 VPN and virtual private LAN service (VPLS) support, 
the MX10003 offers enhanced VPN services such as quality-of-
service (QoS)-prioritized VPN traffic for voice and video, L2 VPN 
internetworking to connect dissimilar L2 access networks, and 
rich IP/MPLS features to customize services and meet service 
level agreements (SLAs).

Metro Ethernet
The MX10003 provides outstanding support for metro and 
aggregation networks by offering a full suite of routing and 
switching features, allowing network operators to choose a 
deployment model that best suits their business and technical 
needs and goals. The MX10003 can be deployed as an IP/MPLS 
VPN edge router, VPLS router, MPLS label-switching router 
(LSR), or as a Layer 2 Ethernet switch or Layer 3 IP router. The 
MX10003 also supports an extensive set of Ethernet Operation, 
Administration, and Maintenance (OAM) features and is Metro 
Ethernet Forum (MEF) certified. 

Distributed Broadband Network Gateway

In a distributed broadband network gateway (BNG) architecture, 
the MX10003 serves as an ideal small-footprint BNG for 
deployment in central office and hub locations. The MX10003 
maintains BNG feature parity with the current MX Series routers, 
including high subscriber densities and HQoS support. 

Data Center 
The MX10003 can be deployed as a data center gateway router 
and for data center interconnection. With high-density 10GbE 
and 100GbE interfaces, and key features such as L2/L3 VPN, 
dynamic tunnels using MPLS-over-GRE, Virtual Extensible LAN 
(VXLAN) encapsulation, and GRE support, the MX10003 offers 
a full suite of routing and switching features, allowing network 
operators to choose a deployment model that fits their business 
and technical needs.

IP Peering
The power-optimized, compact 3 U MX10003 is ideal for 
colocation facilities that charge based on provisioned power and 
space. Offering high control plane scale, the MX10003 supports 
IP Peering and route reflection capabilities that support inline 
flow monitoring, segment routing, BGP, and GRE, among many 
other features.

 MX10003

Specifications
Physical Specifications

•  Physical dimensions (HxDxW): 5.217 x 38.4 x 19 in (13.25 x 

97.53 x 48.26 cm)

•  Airflow: Front to back

•  Number of fan trays: 4

•  Maximum weight (approximate): 120 lbs (54.43 kg)

•  System mounting: Four-post rack mounting

•  Rack units: 3

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit https://www.juniper.
net/us/en/products-services/.

3

Data SheetMX10003 3D Universal Edge RouterAbout Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks challenges the status quo with products, 
solutions and services that transform the economics of 
networking. Our team co-innovates with customers and partners 
to deliver automated, scalable and secure networks with agility, 
performance and value. Additional information can be found at 
Juniper Networks or connect with Juniper on Twitter and Facebook.

Ordering Information
Product Number

Description

Base Units, Spares

MX10003-BASE

MX10003-PREMIUM

MX10003 base 2-slot chassis; includes 
1 RE, 4 fan trays, and 4 fan tray 
controllers

MX10003 redundant 2-slot chassis; 
includes 2 REs, 4 fan trays, and 4 fan 
tray controllers

JNP10003-CHAS

MX10003 chassis, spare

Routing Engines (REs)

JNP10003-RE1

MX10003 RE, spare

JNP10003-RE1-LT

MX10003 limited encryption RE, spare

MPCs

JNP10003-LC2103

MICs 

JNP-MIC1

MX10003 Modular Port Concentrator, 6 
quad small form-factor pluggable plus 
transceivers (QSFP+), 1 MIC slot

12x100GbE multirate MIC

JNP-MIC1-MACSEC

12x100GbE multirate MACsec MIC

Fan Trays

JNP-FAN-3RU

Power Supply Modules 

MX10003 fan tray, spare

JNP-PWR1600-AC

MX10003 AC power supply module

JNP-PWR1100-DC

MX10003 DC power supply module

Cable Management 

JNP-CM-3RU

MX10003 cable manager

JNP-CMFLTR-3RU

MX10003 cable manager with air filter

Software

USA

Junos OS

Junos OS-LTD

Junos OS

64-bit Junos Standard Software Suite

64-bit Junos Software Suite with 
Limited Encryption

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2017 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Juniper, and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice. APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetMX10003 3D Universal Edge Router1000619-001-EN  June 2017EXPLORE JUNIPERGet the App.