Firewall Conversion Service

Service Overview

Deploying a new Juniper Networks 
firewall solution will help 
safeguard the security of your 
customers and organization while 
maintaining your competitive 
advantage. For rapid and smooth 
legacy conversions, it is critical 
for your team to understand and 
be prepared to address typical 
conversion challenges that can 
occur because of interpretation 
errors, human errors, and zone-
based versus single zone policies. 

Juniper’s Firewall Conversion 
Service combines remote 
consulting, proven processes, and 
tested technologies to reduce risk 
and accelerate migration to your 
new Juniper Networks SRX Series 
Services Gateways. 

Service Description 
The Juniper Networks® Firewall Conversion Service is designed to ease the critical transition 
as you convert from legacy firewalls to your new Juniper Networks SRX Series Services 
Gateways solution. This service provides your organization with access to a firewall 
conversion team with extensive knowledge of CheckPoint, Cisco, and Juniper deployments. 
It employs migration and conversion tools that have been developed using time-tested 
migration methodologies and automated processes to minimize data entry errors. It 
enables you to convert to your new SRX Series gateway with Juniper Networks Junos® 
operating system efficiently and with complete confidence.

As part of this service, you are able to leverage the expertise within the Juniper Networks 
Professional Services team and receive a configuration file that emulates the access 
controls provided by the legacy system. This is accomplished using a set of time proven 
tools to convert the configuration values of the legacy system to equivalent controls on the 
SRX Series. The service addresses four areas:

1.   Requirements—Review of the prerequisite data, requirements, design, and  

desired results.

2.   Conversion—Conversion of the policy (rules) and their elements (addresses, 

applications, and groups) found in the legacy configuration to a file suitable for the 
SRX Series gateway.

3.   Review—Detailed review of the converted configuration in comparison to the  

original device.

4.  Implementation—SRX Series cutover and first production day support.

Firewall Conversion Service is a remotely delivered, low cost offering that helps you convert 
from a single device legacy firewall configuration to a new SRX Series gateway. It has been 
specifically designed to ease this critical transition and mitigate risks, and it is performed by 
Juniper experts who have extensive experience in conversions and know how to avoid the 
potential conversion issues. The processes used will ensure that the resulting configuration 
will comply with existing security policies and maintain maximum network uptime. The 
Firewall Conversion Service simplifies your firewall conversion, lowering total cost of 
ownership, enabling a faster time to deployment, and accelerating the time to revenue 
activities for the organization. 

The Firewall Conversion Service also provides the conversion of your entire rule base, 
including access control list (ACL) and Network Address Translation (NAT) rules, plus all 
address and service objects. 

The service is available for customers switching from legacy firewalls to Juniper firewalls, as 
well as for customers who are upgrading from Juniper Networks ScreenOS™ Software-based 
firewalls to Junos OS-based SRX Series Services Gateways. The eligible legacy devices are: 
Checkpoint, Cisco ASA, Cisco FWSM, Cisco PIX, or ScreenOS-based appliances. 

1

Data SheetFeatures and Benefits
Feature

Review of requirements and design

Feature Description

Benefit

Consultants review the information regarding 
legacy data as well as desired end state.

•  Mitigate risks
•  Receive early warning of potential issues

Use of tried and tested conversion tools 
and techniques

Automated conversion of configuration files is 
completed. 

Detailed review of old and new 
configuration files

Your Professional Services engineer checks that 
the configuration has been correctly converted.

•  Minimize potential for data entry errors
•  Accelerate and optimize the time-to-value of 

your Juniper firewall solution

•  Leverage experience from other conversion 

projects 

•  Accelerate availability of new SRX Series 

solution

•  Mitigate risks

Service Deliverables and Benefits 
This service provides a new configuration file and enables you 
to easily and effectively convert from a legacy firewall to a SRX 
Series gateway. The Firewall Conversion Service also provides 
conversion support for your staff and helps minimize the risks in 
converting to a new security solution. 

Exclusions
The Conversion Service does not include:

•  Design review including sizing, interoperability  

and compatibility

•  Base, Skeleton, Configuration or suitability review

• 

 Loading of the file onto a production device. 

Juniper Consulting
As leaders in networks and security, Juniper Networks 
Professional Services consultants and engineers are uniquely 
qualified to assist service providers in designing, implementing, 
and optimizing security solutions. Our team appreciates 
the complexities and the subtleties inherent in large-scale 
internetwork design and can assist service providers and 
enterprises, or provide customized and integrated  
“turn-key” solutions. 

Juniper Networks Professional Services helps accelerate your 
network’s time to value, bringing revenue generating capabilities 
online faster for bigger productivity gains, faster rollouts of 
new business models and ventures, greater market reach, 
and higher levels of customer satisfaction. Your onsite staff 
will work closely with Juniper specialists, building operational 
capabilities and reducing your exposure to IT risks. As a result 
of our previous experience involving hundreds of customers 
around the world, Juniper Networks Professional Services is 
uniquely qualified to help you design, implement, and optimize 
your network for confident operation and rapid returns on 
infrastructure investments. These professionals understand 
today’s network and security demands and those that are just 
around the corner—for bandwidth efficiency, best-in-class 
security, solid reliability, and cost-effective scaling.

The use of Juniper’s consultants also avoids the requirement  
for you to have the necessary technical and evaluation skills 
in-house. The evaluation can be completed faster as you are not 
forced to wait until internal resources become available, nor do 
you have to address the issue of conflicting project priorities.

Additional Services to Optimize  
Your Network 
Juniper Networks provides additional consulting services to 
consider along with the Firewall Conversion Service. For example:

•  Data Center Security Evaluation: This service would 

usually be a precursor to the Data Center Security Migration 
Readiness Evaluation. It is designed to identify areas in which 
your security statement and your security environment are 
misaligned with each other and/or misaligned with the 
requirements of the business. 

In addition, a broad range of consulting and packaged 
implementation services is available to help you enhance your 
network design and optimize your production environment. 
Services to consider in the early stages of your network review are:

•  Strategic Network Consulting: In the planning stage of 

your project, this service will assist you in determining 
a strategy for your network architecture and a plan to 
translate that strategy into an optimal solution. It is aimed 
at understanding your business requirements, determining 
the impact of the changes on your existing network 
infrastructure, and providing architectural guidance and 
recommendations to ensure that your network will be 
enhanced in a controlled manner.

•  High-Level Design: Implementing a new network or security 

project starts with an evaluation of the requirements and  
a detailed rendering of the architecture to be used. The 
High-Level Design service defines the topology, protocols, 
and equipment required, mapping the design to your needs.

•  Low-Level Design: Once the high-level design of a network 
is determined, the specifics need to be identified. The Low-
Level Design service identifies the optimal configuration and 
equipment necessary to make your network a reality.

2

Data SheetFirewall Conversion Service•  Testing Service: Prior to implementation of a new network, 

Juniper Networks Testing Service provides you with an 
opportunity to combine your knowledge of your network’s 
specific performance requirements with Juniper’s sound 
foundation of network design methodology and products 
to create a customized test environment that simulates 
your unique end-to-end deployment scenario. This lets 
you avoid the cost of creating and operating your own 
test labs, reduces your project risk, ensures a seamless 
implementation of new technology into your production 
environment, and accelerates your time to deployment.

•  Junos Space Network Management Platform Security 

Director QuickStart Service: This is a QuickStart service 
that provides the expert assistance of an onsite engineer 
to help rapidly get the most value from your Juniper 
product investment. During the onsite knowledge transfer 
process, your Professional Services Consultant will 
provide expert guidance and learning resources to prepare 
your staff to install, configure, and operate your Juniper 
Networks Junos Space Network Management Platform in 
day-to-day scenarios.

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

Ordering Information 
To order the Juniper Networks Firewall Conversion Service, or 
for additional information, please contact your Juniper account 
manager. Before the service begins, a statement of work (SOW) 
will be created outlining the scope of effort to be performed. 

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks challenges the status quo with products, 
solutions and services that transform the economics of 
networking. Our team co-innovates with customers and partners 
to deliver automated, scalable and secure networks with agility, 
performance and value. Additional information can be found at 
Juniper Networks or connect with Juniper on Twitter and Facebook.

EXPLORE JUNIPER
Get the App.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2016 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetFirewall Conversion Service1000445-003-EN   Nov 2016