Junos Application Aware

Product Overview

Profitably delivering advanced 
broadband services to mobile 
and residential customers 
requires tight control over network 
resources, even as services grow 
in complexity. In order to make 
sound network investments, 
maintain regulatory compliance, 
and streamline business 
operations, service providers 
need reliable information about 
how the network is utilized and 
what applications are being. To 
meet this need, Junos Application 
Aware extends the ability to 
identify applications and take 
specific actions on them with 
award-winning Juniper Networks 
MX Series 3D Universal Edge 
Routers integration.

Product Description 
As new technologies and new applications are developed, service providers are challenged 
to maintain network control and avoid threats and vulnerabilities. Gaining detailed insight 
into the applications in use on the network is critical for ensuring quality of service (QoS), 
security, and planning processes that drive network upgrades and investments; however, 
it can be very difficult to efficiently collect that information. Traditional routing elements 
examine Layer 3 IP address information, and largely ignore Layer 4 through Layer 7 (L4-L7) 
information that can identify an application based on a variety of criteria.  

Juniper Networks helps service providers overcome these challenges by offering Junos® 
Application Aware as a fully integrated optional feature on Juniper Networks® MX Series 
3D Universal Edge Routers. Junos Application Aware is based on deep packet inspection 
(DPI) functions that provide the stateful detection, identification, and analysis of 
application-layer traffic (L4-L7) on a per subscriber, per session basis. 

Junos Application Aware uses stateful monitoring to provide comprehensive details 
of application-layer traffic patterns and statistics that service providers can use to 
support revenue-generating mobile and residential broadband services. From a services 
perspective, Junos Application Aware in combination with Junos Subscriber Aware and 
Junos Policy Control can identify and enforce premium class services, ensure adherence 
to service-level agreements, maintain subscriber fairness, and align network resources to 
application requirements. Product managers can also use this information to design new 
revenue-generating differentiated service offerings. 

Architecture and Key Components
Junos Policy Control

When combined with Junos Application Aware and Junos Subscriber Aware, Junos Policy 
Control provides dynamic policy and online charging capabilities. Junos Policy Control 
enables a Gx Diameter interface towards the Policy Charging and Rules Function (PCRF) 
following the Traffic Detection Function (TDF) model in Third-Generation Partnership 
Project (3GPP) LTE networks. 

Junos Application Aware

Junos Subscriber Aware identifies the subscriber’s association with a flow and classifies 
traffic based on subscriber privilege, permitting differentiated services based on 
subscriber policy:

•  Dynamically redirects new flows to subscriber identification engine and checks 

subscriber identity for a policy match

•  Configures forwarding plane to forward, rate limit, mark, or drop packets associated 

with flow based on policy

Your ideas. Connected.™

•  Can be used with Junos Application Aware to correlate application usage with 

subscriber identity

1

Data SheetMX Series 3D Universal Edge Routers Portfolio
The MX Series portfolio of Ethernet services routers is the industry 
leader for carrier Ethernet capacity, density, and performance. 
Optimized for emerging Ethernet network architectures and 
services, the MX Series is purpose-built for the most demanding 
carrier and enterprise applications, and it leverages Juniper 
Networks Junos operating system to enable carriers and 
enterprises to seamlessly and cost-effectively deploy Ethernet 
and accelerate their next-generation network deployments. By 
combining a best-in-class hardware platform with the reliability 
and service flexibility of Junos OS, the MX Series delivers a 
combination of features and capabilities previously unattainable 
in carrier Ethernet deployments.

Integration with Juniper Networks SRC Series Session and 
Resource Control Modules will provide call admission control 
(CAC) and traffic engineering based on true network awareness. 
It will permit the dynamic modification of system and network 
resources in response to real-time changes in the application 
mix, ensuring the quality of video and voice applications—even 
as subscribers consume other services over the same physical 
connection. Additionally, policies restricting subscribers or 
applications to a maximum number of multicast groups or 
maximum bandwidth can be created to protect downstream 
facility bandwidth from oversubscription, while flow- and port-
based rate shaping policies can be enforced to deliver an assured 
traffic rate that is independent of line and service speed. 

Specifications and Approvals
For a complete list of supported software features, please 
consult the Junos OS software documentation at www.juniper.
net/techpubs/software/.

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

Ordering Information

Model Number

Name

JAPAW

JPC

JSUB

MS-MPC-128G 

Junos Application Aware

Junos Policy Control

Junos Subscriber Aware

MS-MPC with 128 GB of memory (32 GB 
per NPU); occupies a single slot in MX2020, 
MX2010, MX960, MX480, and MX240 3D 
Universal Edge Routers

Multiservices Cards (MS-MPC)

MS-MPCs are next-generation, advanced service modules for the 
MX Series. They deliver the performance, services, and scalability 
that are critical to today’s advanced Ethernet services edge and 
broadband edge networks. MS-MPCs are full slot modules that 
supply hardware acceleration for an array of packet processing-
intensive services for the MX2020, MX2010, MX960, MX480, and 
MX240 3D Universal Edge Routers. 

In addition to supporting Junos Application Aware, Junos 
Subscriber Aware, and Junos Policy Control, these cards 
offer flexible support for stateful firewall, Network Address 
Translation (NAT), IPsec, anomaly detection, flow monitoring 
and accounting, and tunnel services. This wide array of services 
enables service providers and enterprises to secure their 
network infrastructure; collect rich statistics for billing, capacity 
planning, and security purposes; and create new services, all 
with a single module. 

Features and Benefits
Service Integration

Junos Application Aware is integrated with a wide variety of 
Junos OS software protocols and applications, such as Junos 
Subscriber Aware, Junos Network Secure, Junos VPN Secure, 
Junos Address Aware, and Junos Traffic Vision, to name just 
a few. These Junos OS services can be layered to create an 
enhanced, customized service experience; for example, the 
tight coupling of Junos Application Aware and Junos Subscriber 
Aware enables granular per subscriber application identification, 
analysis, control, and reporting, as well as the invocation of 
policy-based network modification (bandwidth, QoS) based on 
the dynamically identified presence of an application/subscriber 
combination. Tight integration with MPLS provides all of the 
benefits of IP-layer awareness.

2

Data SheetJunos Application AwareAbout Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2014 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetJunos Application Aware1000498-001-EN  Oct 2014