Junos Space Security Director

Product Overview

In today’s complex environment, 
network security management 
can become overly time 
consuming and prone to error if 
management solutions are slow, 
unintuitive, or restricted in their 
level of granularity, control, and 
visibility. Junos Space Security 
Director provides security policy 
management for all physical, 
logical, and virtual firewalls 
(SRX Series Services Gateways 
and vSRX) through an intuitive, 
centralized, web-based interface 
that offers enforcement across 
emerging and traditional risk 
vectors.

With the addition of Policy 
Enforcer, Security Director 
automatically updates policies 
based on threats identified by 
Sky Advanced Threat Prevention 
malware detection in the cloud, 
as well as those found by on-
premises threat intelligence 
solutions.  Updated policies are 
then distributed to enforcement 
points such as firewalls and 
switches, ensuring up-to-the-
minute network protection.

Product Description 
Juniper Networks® Junos® Space Security Director, an application that runs on the 
innovative, intuitive, and intelligent Junos Space Network Management Platform, provides 
detailed visibility into application performance, reducing risk while enabling users to move 
quickly from “knowing” something is wrong to “doing” something to fix the problem.

Providing extensive scale, granular policy control, and policy breadth across the network, 
Security Director helps administrators manage all phases of the security policy life cycle 
for stateful firewall, unified threat management (UTM), intrusion prevention, application 
firewall (AppFW), VPN, and Network Address Translation (NAT) through a centralized 
web-based interface. Security Director reduces management costs and errors by providing 
actionable intelligence, automation, efficient security policy, intuitive workflows, and a 
powerful application and platform architecture, allowing users to detect threats as they 
happen and apply remedial actions in real time.

Policy Enforcer simplifies and automates the process of deploying up-to-the-minute 
enforcement.  An intuitive user interface gives administrators the flexibility to selectively 
control and modify network elements, enforcement groups, threat management services, 
and profile definitions.

The Security Director dashboard provides customizable, information-rich widgets offering 
visually intuitive displays that report security device status at a glance. A pallet allows you 
to easily navigate between firewall, threat, intrusion prevention system (IPS), application, 
throughput and device-related information, which can be used to create a customized view 
of the Juniper Networks SRX Series Services Gateways firewall environment. 

Through the dashboard, you can quickly determine which SRX Series devices have the 
most alarms, or which have consumed the most CPU cycles or RAM for a specific time 
period. A Threat Map widget shows the number of IPS events detected per geographic 
location, giving you industry-leading information gathering and remediation capabilities.

Figure 1: Junos Space Security Director dashboard

1

Data SheetFigure 2: Application Visibility dashboard feature

Drilling down on widgets, users can sort and search various 
events to effortlessly obtain detailed information such as top 
viruses blocked, top destinations, top sources, and other details 
that can be used to ensure that the network is safe.

Blocking traffic from a specific country is also easy and intuitive.  
Using Security Director’s Live Threat Map, it’s not only possible 
to see where threats are originating, you can also block traffic 
coming from or going to a selected geographic location.

Security Director offers the industry’s most innovative solution 
for managing the application, user, and IP environment. Network 
administrators can choose between three different views to see 
how applications and users are affecting the network, observe 
bandwidth utilization levels, or determine the number of sessions 
created. Granular usage details, such as which applications 
are the riskiest, can be viewed. Top talkers are easy to identify 
and remediate. Different time frames can also be compared to 
determine when utilization is typically at its peak. 

Unlike other products, Security Director does not require 
users to run multiple reports or open multiple tabs and then 
manually analyze the data to determine who is using which 
applications and to what extent. Instead, Security Director allows 
administrators to easily correlate users to applications by simply 
selecting an application icon or a user/user group icon. 

Actionable Intelligence

With most security management solutions, administrators have 
to run a report or open several tabs to find the applications or 
users they want to manage. Then they must manually create the 
required firewall rules, determine where to place those rules, and 
hope they don’t conflict with any existing rules, thereby creating 
a host of new problems. This is a tedious, time-consuming, and 
error-prone process. 

Security Director offers an Actionable Intelligence feature that 
eliminates the need to engage in this antiquated exercise. Using 
Actionable Intelligence, administrators can select one or more 
applications or user/user groups from the Application Visibility or 
User Visibility charts, then simply select “Block.” Security Director 
automatically creates the requested rule or rules and deploys 
them in the optimal location within the rules base, avoiding 
any anomalies and taking the guesswork out of managing the 
application and user environment.

Table 1: Junos Space Security Director Features and Benefits 

Features

Policy Enforcer

Description

Benefits

Creates and centrally manages security policies 
through a user intent-based system, evaluating threat 
intelligence from multiple sources while dynamically 
enforcing policies in near real time across the network.
Enforces threat management policies at firewalls and 
access switches, aggregating threat feeds from Sky 
Advanced Threat Prevention, Spotlight Secure, and 
on-premises custom threat intelligence solutions with 
white and black list support.

•  Reduces risk of compromise by eliminating stale 

rules and automatically updating enforcement 
based on network threat conditions.
Improves protective posture by quarantining and 
tracking infected hosts.

• 

•  Allows security practitioners to focus on maximizing 

security rather than writing tedious policy rules.

Firewall policy analysis 

Provides ability to schedule reports that show which 
firewall rules are shadowed or redundant, and 
recommends actions to fix all reported issues.

Allows administrators to maintain an efficient 
firewall rule base by easily identifying ineffective and 
unnecessary rules. 

2

Data SheetJunos Space Security DirectorFeatures

Description

Benefits

Firewall rule replacement 
guidance 

Firewall policy hit count 

Live threat map 

Innovative application 
visibility and management 

Upon creation of a new rule, analyzes existing firewall 
rule base to recommend optimal position and 
application.

Shows hit counts for each firewall via meters, as well 
as filters that display which rules are hit the least. 
Security Director also has the ability to keep a lifetime 
hit count. 

Displays where threats are originating in near real time 
and allows you to take action to stop them.

Provides an easy and intuitive way to see which 
applications use the most bandwidth, have the most 
sessions, or are most at risk. Know which users are 
accessing non-productive applications and by how 
much.
Top talkers are displayed in an easy-to-understand 
manner.
Block applications, IP address, and users with a simple 
mouse click.

Significantly reduces shadowing rules. 

Allows administrators to assess effectiveness of each 
firewall rule and quickly identify unused rules, resulting 
in a better managed firewall environment.

Provides near real-time insight into network-related 
threats. Allows you to block traffic going to or coming 
from a specific country with a single click.

Delivers greater visibility, enforcement, control, and 
protection over the network.

Simplified threat 
management 

Snapshot support 

Policy life cycle 
management 

Reports where threats are originating and where they 
are going via a global map. Blocking a country is easy; 
simply mouse over the country to take action. 

Provides insight needed to effectively manage network-
related threats. Allows you to block traffic going to or 
coming from a specific country with a single click.

Allows users to snapshot, compare, and roll back 
configuration versions.

Simplifies configuration changes and allows recovery 
from configuration errors.

Provides ability to manage all phases of security policy 
life cycles, including create, deploy, monitor, remediate, 
and maintain.

•  Enables central control over stateful firewall, 

AppFW, UTM, IPS, VPN, and NAT in one Junos Space 
Security Director management console.

Drag-and-drop 

Allows firewall, IPS, and NAT rules to be reordered by 
simply dragging them to a new location.

VPN auto provisioning and 
import 

Role-based access for 
policies and objects 

Simply tell Security Director which VPN topology to 
use and which devices you want to participate in the 
topology, and Security Director will auto-provision 
the tunnels.  If you have an existing Juniper VPN 
environment, Security Director can import the VPNs to 
provide an easy and effective way to manage them.

Allows devices, policies, and objects to be placed 
within domains and assigns read/write permissions to 
a user.

•  Eases administration by unifying common policy 

tasks within a single interface.

•  Reduces errors by enabling reuse of policies across 

multiple devices.

Enables firewall, IPS, and NAT objects to be added or 
copied by dragging them from one cell to another, or 
from a pallet located at the bottom of the policy table.

Makes pre-existing SRX Series VPNs easier to manage.

Provides customers a way to segment administrative 
responsibility for policies and objects.

REST APIs for automation 

Provides RESTful APIs that can be used in conjunction 
with automation tools.

Automates configuration and management of physical, 
logical, or virtual SRX Series devices. 

Logging and reporting 
through Junos Space Log 
Director application 

Enables integrated logging and reporting.

Tight coupling with Junos Space Security Director: 
•  Displays rules and events in same window 
•  Allows administrator to easily shift views from logs 

to corresponding rules and vice versa

Direct access to Junos Space Security Director policies 
and objects: 
•  Role-based access control (RBAC) 
•  Event viewer for events aggregation and filtering 
•  Dashboard with customizable graphs 
•  Reports generated and automatically sent via e-mail 
•  E-mail alerts automatically generated based on 

threshold 

SRX Series health monitoring: 
•  CPU utilization 
•  Memory utilization 
•  VPN monitoring 
System log forwarding to security information and 
event management (SIEM)

3

Data SheetJunos Space Security DirectorSpecifications
Client Browser Support

Ordering Information 
Junos Space Appliance

Security Director is best viewed on the following browsers: 

•  Google Chrome v.33.x and above 

• 

Internet Explorer v.10.x and above 

•  Firefox v.30.x and above 

•  Safari v.7.x and above 

VMware Version

Junos Space works with VMware vSphere 4.0 and above.

Junos (Operating System) Software 

The SRX Series Services Gateways run Junos OS software. 
Junos Space Security Director runs on Juniper devices running 
Junos OS 10.3 and later releases.

Junos Space Network Management Platform

Junos Space Security Director 16.1 runs on Junos Space 16.1.

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For services information specific to Junos Space 
Security Director, please consult the Junos Space Security 
Director with NSM Import QuickStart Service or the Junos Space 
Security Director QuickStart Service data sheets. For more 
details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/en/products-services. 

Junos Space Virtual Appliance includes the complete Junos Space 
software package as well as the Junos OS operating system. It 
requires users to create a virtual machine in order to deploy the 
appliance. The recommended specifications for the virtual machine 
are identical to the specifications of the physical appliance. See 
www.juniper.net/documentation/en_US/junos-space14.1/topics/
concept/junos-space-virtual-appliance-overview.html 

Product Number
JA2500-A-BSE

Description
Base Appliance

Junos Space Security Director

Junos Space Security Director software is licensed based on the 
number of security devices you will manage. For example, if you 
will be managing 100 SRX Series Services Gateways, then you 
would purchase a single license for JS-SECDIR-100. 

Product Number
JS-SECDIR-5 

JS-SECDIR-10  

JS-SECDIR-100  

Description
Junos Space Security Director license 
for 5 devices

Junos Space Security Director license 
for 10 devices

Junos Space Security Director license 
for 100 devices

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks challenges the status quo with products, 
solutions and services that transform the economics of 
networking. Our team co-innovates with customers and partners 
to deliver automated, scalable and secure networks with agility, 
performance and value. Additional information can be found at 
Juniper Networks or connect with Juniper on Twitter and Facebook.

EXPLORE JUNIPER
Get the App.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2017 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetJunos Space Security Director1000332-018-EN  Apr 2017