Data Sheet

Contrail Service Orchestration  

Product  Overview

Contrail Service Orchestration is 
a comprehensive management 
and orchestration platform that 
delivers virtualized network 
services built on an open 
framework. By allowing service 
providers to selectively or 
simultaneously centralize and 
distribute virtual network services 
in a hybrid deployment model, 
Contrail Service Orchestration 
addresses the needs of small to 
midsize businesses as well as 
large enterprises with a single 
and elegant point-and-click 
interface. Product managers 
get a clean and polished 
service design experience; 
service management and 
troubleshooting are streamlined 
for administrators; and customers 
have a personalized self-service 
portal to select the services that 
best meet their evolving business 
requirements.   

Product Description 
Service providers today are facing a number of complex network operational challenges, 
including rigid service delivery infrastructures and operating costs that seldom align with 
revenue. This hinders their ability to quickly design and deploy new services. Compounding 
these problems, network operations are increasingly complex and the current infrastructure 
is expensive to maintain, driving up costs.

Juniper Networks® Contrail Service Orchestration empowers both enterprises and service 
providers to drastically reduce service delivery times, transforming a several month truck 
roll experience into a near real-time mouse-click experience by automating the entire 
service delivery life cycle. It reduces the operational costs associated with creating new 
services while significantly enhancing customer satisfaction, leading to long-term revenue 
growth. It also greatly increases network cost efficiency by dynamically and efficiently 
routing traffic and assigning resources based on analytics-driven policies.

Contrail Service Orchestration is built from the ground up to seamlessly integrate with 
Contrail Cloud Platform for turnkey cloud orchestration, creating a vertically integrated 
Network Functions Virtualization (NFV) management system and orchestration software 
stack that addresses a multitude of NFV use cases.

Architecture and Key Components
Contrail Service Orchestration consists of the following key components:

•  Network Service Designer: The Network Service Designer provides product managers 

and network architects with an intuitive point-and-click solution for performing the 
service definition process of Juniper and third-party VNFs that is part of service life 
cycle management. An easy step-by-step service design implementation wizard 
walks users through the complete service definition process, specifying the virtualized 
network function (VNF) onboarding process, VNF version control, VNF description, 
and more. Network Service Designer also assists with the service configuration 
parameters, service chaining templates, and customer-specific service catalogs that 
get exposed through the customer portal. The entire service definition is saved in a 
database via standard YANG data models, providing easy integration with third-party 
operations support systems (OSS) and business support systems (BSS).

1

2Data SheetContrail Service Orchestration Figure 1: Contrail Service Orchestration Network Service Designer• Administration Portal: The Administration Portal gives the network administrators simultaneous visibility into customers’ on-premise and hybrid cloud-based services, enabling them to easily monitor and troubleshoot service health and status. Detailed service information is easily accessible for investigating individual, centralized cloud customer premises equipment (CPE) service level agreements (SLAs), on-premises distributed, or hybrid cloud CPE resource diagnostics reports, management of service catalog resources, and other administrative functions. Customers can choose to develop their own administration portal GUI using REST APIs.Figure 2 : Contrail Service Orchestration Administration Portal• Customer Portal: The Customer Portal is a customized window into the end-user experience, giving end customers the freedom to self-select the services that best fit their business needs. They also have the ability to select the appropriate service deployment model on premise or in the cloud with the flexibility to determine when to deploy or cancel a service in near real time. Service providers can choose to develop their own Customer Portal GUI using REST APIs.Figure 3: Contrail Service Orchestration Customer Portal• Network Service Controller: In the distributed Cloud CPE deployment model, the Network Service Controller auto-associates, auto-provisions, and auto-manages the CPE devices and Virtual Network Functions (VNFs) on Juniper Networks NFX Series Network Services Platforms. The Network Service Controller automates the entire CPE management process, including remote activation of the CPE devices, enablement of the overlay VPN topology, and device maintenance and monitoring across all site locations. • Network Service Orchestrator: The Network Service Orchestrator automates and orchestrates the entire service creation process, from the time a customer designs, publishes, and selects a new network service across the entire network. In the centralized deployment model, Network Service Orchestrator works with the Contrail Cloud Platform, leveraging OpenStack heat templates to automate the Cloud infrastructure—virtualized service spin-up/spin-down, service configuration, service chaining, and infrastructure resource management. This approach eliminates service provisioning errors and enables near real-time service delivery. In the distributed deployment model, Network Service Orchestrator works in concert with the Network Service Controller to automate the virtualized service spin-up/spin-down, service configuration, service chaining, and virtualized infrastructure resource management processes, eliminating service provisioning errors and enabling near real-time service delivery on NFX Series platforms.• SD-WAN Control: Contrail Service Orchestration’s analytics engine gives end-customers visibility into WAN traffic via the customer portal for monitoring purposes. The analytics engine provides detailed information that allows Contrail Service Orchestration to create informed policies that define how network traffic is prioritized and routed (e.g. business-critical applications run on the purpose-built MPLS network while non-critical applications run on public broadband). Customers can adjust policies in real-time; policies are pushed to the vSRX virtual firewall(s) running on NFX Series Network Services Platforms, which enforce the routing policies.Contrail Service Orchestration 

Data Sheet

Features and Beneﬁts
Openness
The Contrail product suite is an elegant and modular integrated 
software stack built upon open protocols and open data 
models that avoid expensive vendor lock-in. For the first time, 
customers have the freedom to choose the appropriate Contrail 
components that meet their business needs: freedom to 
individually layer SDN control with Contrail Network; freedom 
to use SDN control and Telco Cloud resource management 
environments with integrated OpenStack via Contrail Cloud 
Platform; and freedom to deploy a complete comprehensive 
management and orchestration layer with Contrail Service 
Orchestration built with open YANG data models and REST 
APIs. Openness also extends to an open ecosystem that easily 
onboards third-party VNFs to enrich the service creation catalog 
and give customers additional service delivery options.

Intelligent Management and Orchestration
With a simplified service creation workflow portal, product 
managers can intelligently and confidently define a customized 
service catalog through an intuitive, user-friendly service creation 

wizard. Leveraging insightful resource management schemas, 
Contrail Service Orchestration recommends the most efficient 
service creation model based upon defined VNFs that will best 
meet the customer’s requirements. Eliminating erroneous, error-
prone, human-driven provisioning processes, the intelligent 
service design portal establishes a workflow that reduces the 
time required to define and deliver new services to market, 
increasing productivity and lowering operational expenses.

Intelligent service creation is followed up with automated service 
delivery. Once a customer selects a service they want, the entire 
service life cycle is orchestrated, no matter which deployment 
model is required (centralized, distributed, or hybrid). A consistent 
cohesive delivery model is automated through the entire software 
stack and also throughout the entire network infrastructure.

Personalization
Customizable user-defined portals can be created, elevating user 
satisfaction, driving a tighter partnership with customers, and 
ultimately leading to increased profitability. Service providers can 
build specific service catalogs that are unique to their own or 
their customers’ business objectives.

Features
Contrail Service Orchestration is built from the ground up with 
openness at its core; open protocols, open YANG data models, and 
open APIs easily integrate into existing OSS/BSS environments.

Beneﬁts
With a complete management and orchestration software stack, 
customers can take advantage of accelerated innovation by leveraging 
the power of the open-source community.

Customized service onboarding with customer-speciﬁc proﬁles 
provides a personalized user experience.

Every customer receives a personalized experience, allowing for the 
creation of services that best ﬁt business needs.

Seamless integration with Contrail Cloud Platform ensures an 
automated management and service orchestration experience across 
the entire infrastructure.

Contrail Service Orchestration can easily be integrated into existing 
OSS/BSS networking environments.

Multiple NFV use cases are simultaneously supported, including 
Juniper’s Cloud CPE solution, in a centralized, distributed, or hybrid 
deployment model extending to the customer premise.

Solution addresses any deployment model; services can be seamlessly 
chained together to increase revenue-generating service delivery 
opportunities such as SD-WAN, vCPE, and Telco Cloud.

Intelligently managed services extend through their entire life cycle 
with feature-rich service design and administrative tools.

New services can be cataloged in minutes to quickly meet customer 
demands and assure the service for greater customer satisfaction. 

Built-in Juniper physical network element manager.

Zero-touch provisioning and conﬁguration for distributed Cloud CPE 
deployment models.

Deploy any deployment model over any network implementation.

Contrail Service Orchestration automatically connects the access layer 
to the provider edge gateway in a central office to the virtual service 
instance.

The network activator application provides zero-touch support 
for the NFX Series, starting with Day One conﬁguration, detailed 
administrative device management and contrail cloud platform VNF 
life-cycle management coherency.

Contrail Service Orchestration supports any WAN architecture with its 
transport-agnostic VPN management capabilities. It auto-provisions 
the underlay WAN network transport with various VPN technologies 
such as IP-Sec, GRE Tunneling, L2/L3 VPN, and more.

Speciﬁcations
System recommendations and operating environment depend 
on the intended use of the servers. There are four recommended 
Contrail Service Orchestration deployment configurations to 
support varying scale and redundancy:

1  Demonstration mode for non-high availability

2  Production mode for non-high availability

3  Production mode with high availability

4  Trial mode with high availability

 

In each configuration, the allocated virtual machines 
perform the following unique functions:

 - Installer virtual machine

 - Contrail Analytics virtual machine

 - Infrastructure services

 - Microservices

 - Load balancing

3

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2017 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Juniper, and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetContrail Service Orchestration  1000559-004-EN   Apr 2017Recommended Operating Environment• Network: 1GbE or 10GbE interface card (one or more) • OS: Linux OS (Ubuntu 14.04 and 14.04.1 LTS) • Storage: Greater than 1 TB Serial Advanced Technology Attachment (SATA), Serial Attached SCSI (SAS), or solid-state drive (SSD) • Servers: Quanta (QuantaPlex T41S-U), Supermicro (SYS-2028TPHC1TR-OTO-4), or Dell (R420) (Intel E5-2670v3 or better) using 64-bit dual x86 processorTable 1 below reflects the server requirements per configuration.  Detailed configurations of virtual machines and memory allocations to the Contrail Service Orchestration functions can be found in the Contrail Service Orchestration deployment guide.Table 1: Server Requirements per ConﬁgurationConﬁgurationNumber of ServersvCPUs per ServerMemory per Server (GB RAM)Demo non-HA conﬁguration148128Production non-HA conﬁguration248256Production HA conﬁguration648256Trial HA conﬁguration348128Note: In the high-availability configuration, the pairing of three servers function in a mesh configuration to support stateful failover in the event that a virtual machine experiences a failure.Juniper Networks Services and SupportJuniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/en/products-services.Ordering InformationThis product adheres to the Juniper Software Advantage pricing model—thus, please be advised of the following items that constitute an order:As this is a virtual appliance/software product, you would not buy any hardware license from Juniper, but, instead, procure the hardware and additional required support for this hardware from an additional third-party vendor. For additional information on supported hypervisor(s) and VM requirements and recommended hardware configuration, please refer to the technical documentation for this product on our website (www.juniper.net) under the Support section.Juniper Networks products are sold directly as well as through Juniper partners and resellers. For more information on the Juniper Software Advantage business model, please visit www.juniper.net/us/en/products-services/sdn/contrail/.For information on how to buy, please visit www.juniper.net/us/en/how-to-buy.About Juniper NetworksJuniper Networks challenges the status quo with products, solutions and services that transform the economics of networking. Our team co-innovates with customers and partners to deliver automated, scalable and secure networks with agility, performance and value. Additional information can be found at Juniper Networks or connect with Juniper on Twitter and Facebook.EXPLORE JUNIPERGet the App.