SRX Series QuickStart Service 

Service Overview

In the current network landscape, 
the primary focus is to protect 
corporate data and user identity 
from being compromised. Staying 
current with security standards 
and protection capabilities  
has become a necessity to  
maintain an advantage over  
the competition.

Implementing a new security 
product can be a huge risk and 
a time-consuming affair if the 
product knowledge and solid 
planning is not in place. SRX 
Series QuickStart Service can 
help your organization reduce 
this risk and ensure a rapid and 
smooth transition to your new 
Juniper Networks SRX Series 
Services Gateways solution 
with the help of a highly skilled 
Professional Services engineer.

Service Description 
This service provides the specialized support of a Juniper Networks Professional Services 
engineer who has the skills and experience to help you deploy and configure a firewall 
quickly, securely, and efficiently at your network operations center. The SRX QuickStart 
Service is a planning, design, and execution service for best practice integration of Juniper 
Networks® SRX Series Services Gateways into your network. 

This service (lasting approximately 5 days) includes the following phases:

Phase 1: Plan—High-Level Design (HLD) development and  
design discussion

•  The Juniper Networks consultant will work with your engineering and/or operations 
team to review and validate design functionality in accordance with the feature sets 
of SRX Series. 

•  The consultant will deliver a High-Level Design describing the integration/migration 
from the existing architecture to the new SRX Series architecture, and justifications 
for the design and configuration choices. 

Phase 2: Build—Implementation planning and consulting

• 

• 

 The consultant will review high-level migration strategies and options that are 
applicable to your specific network and service requirements. This detailed review 
of the overall implementation strategy will help ensure a swift and smooth 
implementation, with zero or minimal downtime. 

 The consultant will also provide remote or onsite engineering assistance to execute 
the implementation plan, and will help with network design implementation, 
migration, testing, and troubleshooting. 

Phase 3: Operate—SRX Series implementation plus cutover support 

• 

 The consultant will provide onsite support for up to 6 hours during the cutover window 
to answer any questions and assist in troubleshooting. Transfer of information will be 
provided to the customer’s point of contact throughout the engagement. 

1

Data SheetService Features and Benefits
Feature

Feature Description

Design planning and recommendations

Information is collected about your 
requirements to validate your SRX Series 
network design.

Onsite Professional Services engineer

Deploys and configures the SRX Series 
gateway(s).

Onsite implementation support

Provides day0 cutover support when 
implementing the SRX Series gateway(s).

Benefit

•  Ensures that your requirements are addressed 

in planning and subsequent installation

•  Minimizes time and effort to develop design 

and installation plan 

•  Accelerates and optimizes the time to value of 

your SRX Series solution

•  Ensures effective configuration and adherence 

to best practices 

•  Ensures that the SRX Series has been 

successfully configured and implemented 
according to the agreed upon design

Service Deliverables
By the end of this service, you will have received:

• 

• 

 High-Level Design for integration/migration 

 Configured and operational SRX Series solution

Exclusions
The scope of this service is for a maximum of one pair of SRX 
Series. If you require additional services of the Juniper consultant, 
or services for additional SRX Series appliances, then a scoping 
call will be needed to determine the correct level of effort and 
pricing, and to prepare a customized SOW. 

Juniper Consulting
As leaders in data centers and networks, Juniper Networks 
Professional Services consultants and engineers are uniquely 
qualified to assist you in designing, implementing, and optimizing 
network solutions. 

Juniper Networks Professional Services helps accelerate your 
network’s time to value, bringing revenue-generating capabilities 
online faster for bigger productivity gains, faster rollouts of new 
business models and ventures, greater market reach, and higher 
levels of customer satisfaction. Your onsite staff will work closely 
with Juniper specialists, building operational capabilities and 
reducing your exposure to IT risks. As a result of our previous 
experience involving hundreds of customers around the world, 
Juniper Networks Professional Services is uniquely qualified 
to help you design, implement, and optimize your network 
for confident operation and rapid returns on infrastructure 
investments. These professionals understand today’s network 
and security demands and those that are just around the 
corner—for bandwidth efficiency, best-in-class security, solid 
reliability, and cost-effective scaling.

The use of Juniper’s consultants also avoids the requirement 
for you to provide the necessary technical, security audit and 
evaluation skills in-house. The evaluation can be completed 
faster, as you are not forced to wait until internal resources 
become available, nor do you have to address the issue of 
conflicting project priorities.

Additional Services to Optimize Your 
Network 
Juniper Networks provides additional consulting services to 
consider along with the SRX Series QuickStart Service.

A broad range of consulting and packaged services is available 
to help you enhance your network design and optimize your 
production environment. Services to consider in the early stages 
of your network review are:

• 

• 

 Strategic Network Consulting: In the planning stage of 
your project, this service will assist you in determining 
a strategy for your network architecture and a plan to 
translate that strategy into an optimal solution. It is aimed 
at understanding your business requirements, determining 
the impact of the changes on your existing network 
infrastructure, and providing architectural guidance and 
recommendations to ensure that your network will be 
enhanced in a controlled manner.

 Testing Service: Prior to implementation of a new network, 
Juniper Networks Testing Service provides you with the 
opportunity to combine your knowledge of your network’s 
specific performance requirements with Juniper’s sound 
foundation of network design methodology and products 
to create a customized test environment that simulates 
your unique end-to-end deployment scenario. This lets 
you avoid the cost of creating and operating your own 
test labs, reduces your project risk, ensures a seamless 
implementation of new technology into your production 
environment, and accelerates your time to deployment.

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

2

Data SheetSRX Series QuickStart Service Ordering Information 
To order the Juniper Networks SRX Series QuickStart Service, or 
for additional information, please contact your Juniper account 
manager. Before the service begins, a statement of work (SOW) 
will be created outlining the scope of effort to be performed.

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks challenges the status quo with products, 
solutions and services that transform the economics of 
networking. Our team co-innovates with customers and partners 
to deliver automated, scalable and secure networks with agility, 
performance and value. Additional information can be found at 
Juniper Networks or connect with Juniper on Twitter and Facebook.

EXPLORE JUNIPER
Get the App.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2016 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetSRX Series QuickStart Service 1000462-004-EN   Nov 2016