Juniper Care Plus Services

Service Overview

In today’s dynamic marketplace, 
organizations are under constant 
pressure to meet market 
demand while maintaining or 
increasing return on investment. 
IT departments are being asked 
to align and deliver on the 
organization’s objectives and 
goals while managing scarce 
resources and a flat or decreasing 
IT budget.

Your network and IT infrastructure 
are more than just support for 
your organization—they are the 
backbone of your success. With 
a strategy of innovation and 
investment opportunities, you 
need a high-performance network 
to meet your long-term goals.  

Juniper Care Plus empowers organizations to meet today’s challenges by delivering 
proactive personalized services designed to maximize application reliability and avoid 
incidents. This helps ensure that your network is always at optimum readiness, able to 
evolve smoothly and effectively in response to the demands of your organization’s goals. 
Juniper Care Plus provides enhancements over and above a standard support contract.

•  Do you need to lower the total cost of ownership? 

• 

Is application reliability a priority? 

•  Are you looking for an efficient and effective skill set transfer? 

•  Would a single point of contact for all service-related activities be perceived as 

beneficial? 

•  Do you have a goal to minimize network-based risk while maximizing the value of your 

network investment?

If you answered “yes” to any or all of these questions, it is very likely that you will benefit 
from Juniper Care Plus services. 

Service Description 
Juniper Care Plus keeps the network at optimum readiness through high touch support 
(service manager), proactive automation tools to help automate and simplify the 
network (Juniper Networks® Junos® Space Service Insight), and personalized services 
such as training, network consulting, and account management—all mitigating risk for 
organizations, providing application reliability, reducing the learning curve, and accelerating 
time to value. 

The prerequisite service product is Juniper Care. Having a Juniper Care contract in place 
assures that the organization can take full advantage of all Juniper Care Plus features  
and benefits.

Figure 1: Juniper Technical Services overview

Juniper Care Plus

•  Juniper Care Plus delivers proactive and personalized services, 
evolves with your  business initiatives and provides the highest 
network availability

Juniper Care

•  Juniper Care improves staﬀ productivity and decreases 
operational costs through award winning 24x7 support 
and automation

Your ideas. Connected.™

1

Data SheetFeatures and Benefits
Table 1: Juniper Care Plus Services Features and Benefits
Note:  Juniper Care is the pre-requisite service product

Feature

Service Manager

Feature Description

Benefit

Single point of contact for all service-related activities. 
Manages the delivery of all entitled services in Juniper  
Care Plus.

Efficient resolution of service issues. Ensures that you are 
represented within Juniper and that your organizational or 
IT requirements are met.

Expert to Expert Access

Provides access to a designated team of senior JTAC 
engineers for all Priority 1 and Priority 2 issues on a 24x7 
basis. 

Fast resolution of mission critical hardware and software 
incidents significantly accelerates the mean time to 
resolution (MTTR) resulting in high network availability. 

Junos Space Service 
Insight

Advanced Services 
Credits 

Training credits

Focused Technical 
Support 
(optional for fee 
service)

Junos Space Service Insight is an intelligent application 
supported by on the Junos Space Network Management 
Platform which delivers proactive reports on Juniper 
Networks Junos operating system devices. Proactive 
reports are generated by Juniper and automatically sent 
to you.
Proactive reports include targeted proactive bug 
notification and on demand End of Life (EOL), End of 
Service (EOS), and End of Engineering (EOE) reports. 

Advanced Services Credits provide you with a fixed 
number of consulting credits from Juniper Networks expert 
consultants. You may choose from a menu of prescriptive 
services comprised of: 
• Configuration Analysis and Change Review
• Design Change Review
• Feature Rollout Plan Review
• Network Change Plan Review
• Implementation Support
• Product Issue Impact Review 
• Software Upgrade Recommendation and Review
• Product Health Check

Provides you with access to knowledge transfer activities 
such as webcasts and a fixed number of Juniper training 
credits (JTCs) that can be used to gain access to any 
private or publicly available, open enrolment, instructor-
led , instructor-led online, and E-Learning courses at 
Juniper Networks Education Centers or any participating 
Juniper Networks Authorized Education Center (JNAEC) 
worldwide.

Focused Technical Support is an offering that many 
customers choose to enhance their Juniper Care 
Plus service. This offering provides you with access 
to a designated team of senior Juniper engineers 
with extensive experience and highly focused 
troubleshooting skills relevant to your network profile and 
operational requirements. For additional information, 
please visit: www.juniper.net/us/en/local/pdf/
datasheets/1000250-en.pdf

Easily assess the risk to your network and proactively make 
changes to avoid potential issues or minimize impacts 
when issues do occur. Allows for careful and informed 
planning of your network infrastructure evolutions.
Preempts exposure to known issues, not just by identifying 
and resolving them, but by empowering organizations to 
anticipate problems and take proactive measures to avoid 
them.

Matching your network’s capability to your organization’s 
needs and goals results in network optimization, which 
means achieving and accelerating time-to-value.
Advanced Services Credits provide you with the expertise 
necessary to plan your network evolution and ensure the 
success of network upgrades, conversions, and migrations 
to Junos OS.  

Significantly reduces the learning curve and helps 
organizations keep pace with rapidly changing 
technologies. Build and scale technical networking 
expertise quickly to align with organizational objectives or 
IT goals.

Maximize MTTR for mission critical hardware and software 
incidents within highly complex networks. 

Service Manager

The Juniper Service Manager is a named contact and your 
advocate within Juniper to manage all service-related activities 
during local business hours. Your Service Manager is the single 
point of contact within Juniper to oversee the delivery of all 
entitled services in the Juniper Care Plus offering. The Service 
Manager’s responsibilities include:

•  Formulate and deliver a Service Support Plan

•  Provide account setup assistance and ongoing account 
management to ensure that you have access to service 
deliverables in the Juniper Care Plus offering and 
appropriate resources within Juniper 

•  Advise and guide you in accessing resources for 

implementing the Junos Space Service Director and Junos 
Space Service Insight infrastructure and related services 
entitlement deliverables 

•  Conduct periodic conference calls to report status on 

outstanding issues and discuss key future network activities 

•  Conduct quarterly operational review meetings to discuss 

your specific product and service performance metrics, 
related trends, and planned services activities 

•  Provide case trend analysis that includes a regular review of 

your reports to identify repeat tactical hardware, software, 
or operational issues  

•  Manage customer escalation related to service support, 

service readiness, and service planning, working with Juniper 
internal delivery teams

•  Provide logistic and operational assistance

•  Provide proactive case planning

2

Data SheetJuniper Care Plus Services•  Track and plan all of your entitled service deliverables such 

as training credits and consulting credits, and provide a 
report on credit usage and balance

•  Assist in service planning based on your specific needs and 

where you are in the services life cycle

• 

Identify your training needs and coordinate with Juniper 
teams to help you plan budget and resources

Expert to Expert Access

Expert to Expert Access provides direct access to a team of 
senior JTAC engineers. You can open Priority 1 and Priority 2 cases 
on a 24x7 basis directly with a team comprised of senior JTAC 
engineers with extensive experience, advanced troubleshooting 
skills, and demonstrated capability to quickly drive your high 
priority issues to resolution. 

Definitions of Priority 1 and Priority 2 Cases

Priority 1 - Critical

Juniper Networks defines a Priority 1 case as a total loss or 
continuous instability of mission critical functionality. This 
includes a network or system being down and causing users to 
experience a total loss of service or inability to use a feature or 
function that is currently relied upon for mission critical tasks. 
Juniper will dedicate JTAC resources 24x7x365 until a resolution 
or workaround is in place. You must also provide designated 
resources that are available 24x7x365 and the ability to provide 
necessary diagnostic information above and beyond that 
gathered by automated incident management features. Note 
that if the assigned JTAC engineer cannot reach the customer-
designated resource within one hour, the priority will be lowered.

Priority 2 – High

Juniper Networks defines a Priority 2 case as: 

• 

• 

• 

Issues are impairing, but do not cause a total loss of mission 
critical functionality, or 

Intermittent issues affect mission critical functionality, or 

Inability to deploy a feature that is not currently relied upon 
for mission critical functionality or loss of redundancy of 
critical hardware component

Service Automation

•  Service automation capabilities delivered via Junos 

Space Service Director and Junos Space Service Insight 
help simplify operations, reduce maintenance costs, and 
enhance operational efficiency.

Junos Space Service Director helps you automate time-
consuming tasks such as inventory management and incident 
management. It allows you to automate the process of trouble 
ticket creation as well diagnostic data collection. Junos Space 
Service Director also periodically collects device health data 
that is used by Junos Space Service Director to create targeted 
actionable reports that can be used for proactive network 
maintenance and support.

Junos Space Service Insight, a smart application hosted on 
the Junos Space Network Management Platform, provides 
the network operations team with targeted reports on how to 
manage the network in response to vendor product bugs and 
EOS/ EOL notifications.

Targeted Proactive Bug Notification

This capability allows you to receive a notification on new 
reported critical and major product bugs that may impact your 
network.  Targeted proactive bug notifications will assess your 
organization’s network profile and provide you a notification 
on bug information that may impact the network with detailed 
information on the devices that may be impacted by the bugs. 

The information included in the notification includes details 
such as the bug description, possible trigger and workarounds if 
available. This information provides proactive actionable data 
that you can use to understand the potential impact of product 
bugs to your network.

Information on the bug notification is stored within Junos Space 
Service Insight for review as needed. Juniper resources can 
help answer questions related to the information delivered and 
perform quarterly reviews for the bugs identified.

Proactive notifications can significantly reduce the time spent by 
the operations manager for bug review and provide immediate 
impact analysis to Juniper TAC and the operations team in case 
of critical bugs identified as risk to the network operations.

Definitions of Critical and Major Bugs 

Critical: Problems that severely affect service, capacity/traffic, 
billing and maintenance capabilities, and require immediate 
corrective action such as: 

•  A loss of service that is comparable to the total loss of 

effective functional capability of an entire system 

•  A reduction in capacity or traffic handling capability such 

that expected loads cannot be handled 

•  Any loss of safety or emergency capability (e.g., 911 calls).

Major: Problems that seriously affect system operation, 
maintenance and administration, etc., and require immediate 
attention. The urgency is less than in critical service impact 
situations because of a lesser immediate or impending effect on 
system performance or the organization’s operations, for example:

•  Reduction in any capacity/traffic measurement function 

•  Any loss of functional visibility, or diagnostic capability, or both 

•  Short outages equivalent to system or subsystem outages

On-Demand EOL/EOS/EOE Report

This feature provides you with the ability to automatically 
generate End of Life (EOL), End of Service (EOS), and End of 
Engineering (EOE) reports that match your network devices. 
The report is generated based on official Juniper EOL/EOS/EOE 
announcements. 

3

Data SheetJuniper Care Plus ServicesOn-demand EOL/EOS/EOE reports are created showing the 
currently deployed network inventory. These reports typically 
include device, announcement details, last software engineering 
support, last hardware engineering support, and replacement 
product information. The network operations team has the ability 
to choose device(s) and see EOL/EOS/EOE milestone dates for 
individual field-replaceable units (FRUs). The devices and FRUs 
approaching EOL are flagged and corresponding replacement 
part numbers are shown

The network administrator has the ability to download these 
reports for offline network planning purposes. Juniper resources 
are available to answer any follow-up questions that may arise 
with respect to these reports.

The intelligent reports above are generated based on information 
collected through Junos Space Service Director from devices on 
your network. When reports are completed by Juniper engineers, 
they are automatically sent to you through Junos Space Service 
Insight. Figure 2  illustrates the data flow from your organization 
to Juniper.

Note:  Junos Space Service Director and Junos Space Service 
Insight are required to deliver the services shown above, and 
deliverables are limited to Junos OS devices only. 

Advanced Services Credits

Advanced Services Credits provide you with a fixed number of 
Advanced Services Credits from Juniper Networks Advanced 
Services Consulting Engineers. You may apply your Advanced 
Services Credits to a menu of prescriptive services comprised of:  

•  Configuration Analysis and Change Review

•  Design Change Review

•  Feature Rollout Plan Review

•  Network Change Plan Review

• 

Implementation Support

•  Product Issue Impact Review 

•  Software Upgrade Recommendation and Review

•  Product Health Check

You are entitled to a fixed number of Advanced Services Credits. 
The Advanced Services Credits are valid for twelve (12) months 
from the date of Juniper Care Plus contract activation, and 
can only be used for services on the menu. For details, please 
contact your local Juniper Partner or Juniper Networks field sales 
manager. 

Configuration Analysis and Change Review

Juniper Networks Configuration Analysis and Change Review 
service provides consultative review and analysis by optimizing 
your network configuration in conjunction with a Juniper 
engineer’s detailed understanding of your network and expertise 
regarding Juniper products. Juniper engineers will discuss your 
requirements in detail and apply best practices and Juniper 
methodology to analyze configuration and features with a focus 
on scalability, resilience, and efficiency. 

Design Review 

Juniper Networks Design Change Review service provides 
consultative review and recommendations for improving and 
optimizing certain aspects of your existing detailed design 
plan for network modifications. Leveraging Juniper engineering 
experience and knowledge of your network architecture, this 
service offering enables you to receive validation from Juniper 
experts before making changes to your network. 

Feature Rollout Plan Review

Juniper Networks Feature Rollout Plan Review service provides 
you with a consultative review and recommendations for planned 
feature introductions to determine the optimal rollout plan. 
Juniper engineers will work with you to understand priorities, 
requirements, and goals. By applying and understanding your 
network topology, product configurations, feature requirements, 
and strategy, the Juniper engineer will provide detailed analysis 
and recommendations that proactively identify risks to help 
minimize potential service disruption when the implementation 
plan is carried out. 

Junos Space Service Director and

Junos Space Service Insight

JMB
Hardware
So(cid:129)ware
Resources
Conﬁguration

Junos Space

Service Director

Junos Space
Service Insight

Internet

AI Scripts
Installed

Customer Network

Customer or Partner NOC

Figure 2: Juniper Service Automation

Juniper Support

System

Juniper Databases

Knowledge base tools

and CRM

Juniper

4

Data SheetJuniper Care Plus ServicesNetwork Change Plan Review

Juniper Networks Change Plan Review service reviews your 
network change plans and provides recommendations for 
optimizing processes based on known best practices. Network 
change plans may include software/hardware upgrade 
implementation plans and new feature implementation plans. 

Implementation Support

Juniper Networks Implementation Support service provides 
remote engineering assistance on critical network changes 
such as migrations, software upgrades, and feature rollouts. 
The Juniper engineer will have sufficient information about the 
network change implementation via knowledge transfer with your 
team, and will be able to assist by analyzing events experienced 
during the change and providing recommendations. 

Product Issue Impact Review

Juniper Networks Product Issue Impact Review service provides a 
detailed review of hardware and software bugs found in the field 
that match your network profile to help determine the potential 
impact and risk to your network. 

Software Upgrade Recommendation and Review

Juniper Networks Software Upgrade Recommendation 
and Review service provides expert review of your software 
requirements, assessment of software upgrade risk, analysis of 
potential impact on your network, and recommendations on a 
target software release that can best meet your requirements. 

Product Health Check

Juniper Networks Product Health Check uses sample data from 
targeted Juniper devices to check key indicators of device health 
and utilization. This helps determine if a product is maintaining 
performance expectations based on Juniper recommended best 
practices. Juniper engineers will analyze your data and provide 
recommended actions or workarounds to help you minimize the 
risk and improve your network performance. 

Training Credits

Training credits provide you with access to knowledge transfer 
opportunities such as webcasts, and also a fixed number of 
Juniper training credits (JTCs) that can be used to gain access to 
any private or publicly available, open enrollment, instructor-led, 
instructor-led online, and E-Learning courses at Juniper Networks 
Education Centers or any participating Juniper Networks 
Authorized Education Center (JNAEC) worldwide. The following 
criteria apply to the use of training credits: 

•  Credits can be used for private or publicly available, 

open enrolment, instructor-led, instructor-led online, and 
E-Learning courses.

•  Credits are redeemable at Juniper Networks Education 

Centers or any participating Juniper Networks Authorized 
Education Center (JNAEC) worldwide.

•  Credits are valid for one (1) year from the purchase date of 

the Juniper Care Plus contract. The courses chosen must 
begin before the credits expire.

•  All Juniper Networks training credits must be redeemed in 

U.S. dollars (USD).

You are entitled to a fixed number of training credits. For details, 
please contact your local Juniper Partner or Juniper Networks 
field sales manager. In addition, you will be invited to monthly 
informational webcast sessions delivered by Juniper product and 
support subject matter experts on leading practices in product 
usage and troubleshooting.

Service Specifications

Your responsibilities include:

•  Work with Juniper to install and set up Junos Space and 

Junos Space Service Insight, and to validate a Junos Space 
Service Insight connection with Juniper. 

•  When requested, provide the  necessary hardware required 
for Junos Space Service Insight (you can purchase a Junos 
Space appliance or use your own VMware infrastructure).    

•  Work with Juniper to set up Internet access of Junos Space 

Service Insight to connect to Juniper Support Systems 
(JSS), including any potential firewall settings.

•  Work with  Juniper to provide  the required information to 

activate the services entitlement, including serial numbers 
of each system-level piece of hardware to enable the 
support level and delivery of services. 

•  When requested, provide information on the current 

software releases running in your network, as well as current 
configurations when requested by Juniper to enable delivery 
of the service deliverables mentioned in this offering. 

•  Work with Juniper to provide hardware and software 
inventory along with configuration data as and when 
requested by Juniper Networks to enable delivery of the 
service deliverables mentioned in this offering.

•  Work with Juniper to provide access to servers, equipment, 

information, logs, infrastructure, and resources that are 
necessary for the delivery of the service.

•  Designate at least two (2) but not more than six (6) 

senior technical representatives, who must be the primary 
technical interface to the service manager or other Juniper 
services team members, as appropriate. You will need 
to designate contacts who are senior engineers with the 
authority to make any necessary changes to the network 
configuration.  

•  When requested, participate in ongoing communications 
with Juniper Networks’ primary contact(s) who will help 
in the delivery of knowledge transfer and other proactive 
communications.

5

Data SheetJuniper Care Plus Services•  When requested, participate in scheduled meetings to 

discuss service deliverables.

•  Work with Juniper to ensure that the requirements identified 

for the proper working of the Juniper Networks’ solution 
are in place. These requirements may be documented in 
the product documentation or user guides or additional 
recommendations communicated by the Juniper Networks 
team from time to time for proper delivery of Juniper services.

•  Understand that your employees interfacing with Juniper 
Customer Support Teams may be required to undergo the 
recommended training conducted by Juniper or Juniper 
Networks Authorized Education Centers worldwide. It is 
strongly recommended that the senior engineers designated 
by you hold at least Juniper Networks Certified Internet 
Specialist (JNCIS) level certification (where available) in the 
relevant technologies.

Complementary or Higher Level Services
Looking for the correct level of expertise to optimize your 
network operations? Then visit the Resident Engineer, Resident 
Consultant, and Focused Technical Support data sheets.

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

Ordering Information 
Juniper Care Plus Services are available globally. For details, 
please contact your local Juniper Partner or Juniper Networks 
field sales manager.

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2015 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetJuniper Care Plus Services1000324-004-EN   Mar 2015