WANDL IP/MPLSView

Intelligent Network Planning Solution for the Agile Next-Generation 
Service Provider

Product Overview

Service providers can no longer 
afford a reactive and overbuilt 
network to handle traffic growth 
from emerging services. Instead, 
they need an approach that first 
optimizes their existing network 
assets and then ensures that every 
bit in the network leads to a dollar 
of revenue being generated.  

IP/MPLSView is a multivendor, 
multiprotocol, and multilayer 
operations support systems 
(OSS) traffic management and 
engineering solution for IP and/
or MPLS networks. With IP/
MPLSView, service providers 
can increase overall network 
utilization with a platform that 
provides multivendor integration, 
unprecedented scalability, and 
powerful fault management 
capabilities.

Product Description 
Juniper Networks® WANDL IP/MPLSView is distinguished by its attention to detailed routing 
protocol behavior, an extensive multivendor library, and scalability and performance for 
networks up to thousands of routers. The integrated software suite has traffic engineering 
models for exhaustive single and concurrent device failures, traffic matrix estimation, MPLS 
diverse path design, fast reroute design, network optimization, and more. Additionally, the 
IP/MPLSView integrated network management module provides a comprehensive fault, 
configuration, accounting, performance, and security (FCAPS) solution offering automated 
network discovery, traffic monitoring, hardware inventory, and fault management tools.

As a multivendor, multiprotocol, and multilayer management suite, IP/MPLSView offers 
service providers the following benefits:

•  One single platform that provides integrated online FCAPS management

•  Multivendor integration for fast network autodiscovery1  

•  Unprecedented scalability to handle regional, national, and intercontinental network 

topologies

•  Performance management to tune the network for increased efficiency, trending 

analysis, and problem prevention

•  Powerful conformance checking to ensure compliance and address any configuration 

management needs

•  Powerful fault management tools to quickly detect and diagnose issues in the network 

IP/MPLSView combines FCAPS management in a single modular platform. Coupled with 
complete physical and logical views of the network, network planners, designers, engineers, 
and operators can now make intelligent and informed real-time decisions regarding the 
network’s operation and performance. 

As a highly intelligent and automated system, IP/MPLSView also provides a continually 
refined design and algorithm optimization that reflects industry best practices and years 
of customer interactions. IP/MPLSView addresses the major areas of network planning, 
including traffic and routing analysis, capacity planning, resiliency analysis/disaster planning, 
path design, and optimization. In addition, an intuitive interface allows users of varying levels 
to use the system effectively without having to program or develop a model first.

1Vendor support includes Cisco, Alcatel-Lucent, Foundry, and Huawei, to name few.

1

Data SheetJava and Web-Browsable Interface

Automatic Network Topology Construction

Multi-Layer Design

and Simulation

FCAPS Monitoring
and Management

CM

PM

FM

Routing Engine

Threshold

Engine

Event

Processing

Intelligent Parser

Database

Autodiscovery and
Network Conﬁg/
Data Collection

TraŠc/SLA
Collection

SNMP
Traps

Diagnostics
and Control

CLI (Telnet/SSH) and SNMP (v1, v2c, v3)

Multi-Vendor IP

or MPLS-enabled Network

Figure 1: IP/MPLSView supports a multivendor/multiprotocol IP  

or MPLS network

Architecture and Key Components
IP/MPLSView is made up of three suites: Design and Planning, 
Management and Monitoring, and Service Creation and 
Provisioning. These three suites support the complete network 
cycle and handle the varying needs of network designers, 
planners, operators, and managers. Understanding IP/
MPLSView’s integrated workflow provides an in-depth look at the 
product’s comprehensive capabilities, which include advanced 
OSS functionality that give users visibility into the network 
layers from physical transport through logical service layers. As a 
multivendor, multiprotocol, and multilayer solution, IP/MPLSView 
supports the following goals and network planning requirements:

•  Automate network topology construction

•  Perform traffic load analysis

•  Perform capacity planning 

•  Ensure network resiliency against failure 

• 

Identify and prevent potential bottlenecks

•  Automate low cost, robust network designs

• 

 Validate changes prior to deployment

•  Design and simulate MPLS-TE networks

•  Create and model VPNs

•  Model the VLAN network

•  Model and analyze BGP

•  Analyze CoS to meet SLAs 

•  Simulate multicast 

From a set of network configuration files and other optional 
data, an intelligent multivendor analyzer within IP/MPLSView 
immediately constructs an accurate network topology, fully 
aware of multiple protocols, layers, autonomous systems (AS), 
areas, VPNS, etc. This network data can be imported into the tool 
or collected directly by the system itself if used in conjunction 
with the IP/MPLSView network management online module. 
Alternatively, the user can manually construct any network 
topology via the IP/MPLSView advanced graphical interface.

Perform Traffic Load Analysis

With IP/MPLSView, users can access current and historical traffic 
charts to pinpoint bottlenecks or underutilized links at-a-glance 
from the topology map. For loading traffic into the network 
model, IP/MPLSView offers its own traffic collection utilities, as 
well as support for utilities that import traffic from third-party 
sources such as MRTG, NetFlow, eHealth, and InfoVista. If you do 
not know the end-to-end traffic matrix, IP/MPLSView is able to 
derive it from the interface traffic using intelligent tomography 
models in the traffic matrix solver module.

Perform Capacity Planning

IP/MPLSView facilitates decisions about future network 
expansion by studying the impact of adding new demands before 
they are placed on the real network. Planners can use the system 
to determine whether there is sufficient available capacity or 
where more should be added, as well as which links can be 
pruned without compromising resiliency requirements.

Ensure Network Resiliency Against Failure

With IP/MPLSView, users can study the impact of extensive node, 
link, site, card, and Shared Risk Link Group (SRLG) multilayer 
failure scenarios. They can also analyze the way traffic is rerouted 
and the effect on network links (e.g., worst-case trunk utilization), 
and even perform exhaustive single, double, and triple failure tests.

Identify and Prevent Potential Bottlenecks

IP/MPLSView provides insights as to why traffic flows or tunnels 
fail to route and helps identify which trucks become congested 
under certain failures or what-if scenarios.

Automate Low Cost, Robust Network Designs

IP/MPLSView automatically determines where to add links to 
satisfy traffic for resiliency against any failure scenario. A network 
can be designed from scratch or on top of an existing network 
configuration. Tariff or pricing data can be imported for least cost 
topology designs.

Validate Changes Prior to Deployment 

IP/MPLSView allows the network planner to validate day-to-day 
network changes, or model and simulate network migration, 
network expansion, or the merging of multiple networks. This 
provides the ability to analyze the impact of these changes in 
a safe, virtual environment, and also experiment with changing 
parameters, protocols, topology, and so on.

2

Data SheetWANDL IP/MPLSVIEWIP/MPLSView: One Integrated Solution Covers the

Complete Network Cycle

1

Plan

Plan, design,
simulate, and
optimize the 
network model.

IP/MPLSView

Network
Model

3

Monitor and
Manage

Upload network
data (conﬁgs, 
tra‚c) via o„ine
import from third-
party sources or
via a direct
discovery of the
live network.

2

Deploy

“Conﬁglets”
generated from
Step 1 are ready
for pushing back 
to the production
network.

Multivendor IP

or MPLS-enabled Network

or NMS

Figure 2: One integrated solution covers the complete  

network cycle.

Design and Simulate MPLS-TE, LSP Routing
With IP/MPLSView, users can design and simulate LSP tunnels 
via intelligent MPLS LSP path calculation. They can perform 
network outage simulations across both MPLS and IP layers. 
automate MPLS fast reroute (FRR) backup tunnel design and 
simulation, automate the design of diverse paths for primary and 
backup protection tunnels, and optimize LSP paths that have 
become suboptimal over time

Create and Model VPNs
IP/MPLSView lets users model a wide variety of VPNs and 
perform VPN routing simulation. You can use the system to 
generate VPN traffic and then perform card failure simulation to 
see if a VPN will be brought down by a single card failure. You can 
also run VPN-specific integrity checks on the configuration files.

Model the VLAN Network
IP/MPLSView shows you topology, status, and details for each 
VLAN, spanning tree, and device. It is easy to model the VLAN 
network by using the VLAN Wizard to construct or modify VLANs. 

Model and Analyze BGP
With IP/MPLSView functionality, users can study BGP routing, 
perform detailed BGP routing analysis and what-if studies 
involving BGP policy changes or the addition of new BGP peers, 
and perform detailed BGP neighbor analysis.

Analyze CoS to Meet SLAs 
To ensure that they are meeting service-level agreements (SLAs), 
service providers can use IP/MPLSView to model class of service 
(CoS) classes and policies, as well as different queuing schemes. 
They can also define application flows based on CoS, which 
enables the modeling of voice over IP (VoIP) or video on demand 
(VOD). IP/MPLSView also helps analyze packet loss and delay 
statistics per class of service.

Simulate Multicast

With IP/MPLSView, users can simulate multicast flows based 
on user-defined multicast groups and demands. They can 
also simulate the effect of rendezvous point selection on the 
distribution tree and on link utilization, as well as shortest-path 
tree (SPT) switchover.

Features and Benefits

•  Reduce network costs: Effective designs can result in lower 

hardware and maintenance costs. Juniper Networks IP/
MPLSView features tariff-based design, MPLS LSP traffic 
engineering for effective utilization of the network, and 
superior design optimization.

•  Automate for productivity and operational efficiencies: 

With the state-of-the-art IP/MPLSView design engine 
and heuristics, tasks such as report, topology map, and 
LSP path generation are automated, as well as tasks such 
as accommodating traffic growth and optimizing the 
backbone topology.

•  Guard against unnecessary risk: Assessing the network 

using IP/MPLSView’s intelligent integrity checking, resiliency 
analysis, fiber cut analysis, etc., helps operators avoid 
problems and mitigate risk. 

•  Diagnose performance problems: Using IP/MPLSView’s flow 

analysis, bottleneck detection and analysis, peak utilization 
analysis, discrete event simulation, and multicast simulation 
helps administrators quickly diagnose performance problems.

•  Validate changes prior to deployment: IP/MPLSView 
enables designers and administrators to validate new 
services, new equipment, and new technologies before they 
are rolled out.

•  Plan for future growth: Using IP/MPLSView’s superior 

capacity planning and data forecasting helps inform and 
optimize plans for growing the network to meet business 
needs.

Specifications
Recommended System Configuration

IP/MPLSView runs on a client/server architecture. The 
recommended configuration depends upon the size of the 
network and the number of users. Sample client/server 
configurations are listed below. For a more precise hardware 
estimate for your network, please contact your local Juniper 
representative.

Main Application Server

•  Multi-core CPUs with clock speed greater than 2.5GHz

•  8 GB for a single application server

•  CentOS and RedHat 6.6 to 7.0

•  100+GB server disk space

3

Data SheetWANDL IP/MPLSVIEWJava Client (PC)

•  Windows 7/8/10

•  4 GB RAM or more

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

Ordering Information
Contact your Juniper Networks Sales Representative or 
Authorized Partner for more information.

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks challenges the status quo with products, 
solutions and services that transform the economics of 
networking. Our team co-innovates with customers and partners 
to deliver automated, scalable and secure networks with agility, 
performance and value. Additional information can be found at 
Juniper Networks or connect with Juniper on Twitter and Facebook.

EXPLORE JUNIPER
Get the App.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2017 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetWANDL IP/MPLSVIEW1000500-004-EN  Feb 2017