Junos Space Network Director API

Product  Overview

Server, storage and network 
virtualization are creating 
constant change and complexity 
in the data center. Today, 
compute and storage can be 
provisioned and activated in 
minutes from cloud management 
interfaces, while network 
infrastructure still requires manual 
intervention to deploy a new 
service or application.

Junos Space Network Director 
API revolutionizes data center 
provisioning with a set of REST 
APIs that provide a consistent 
interface to all orchestration 
applications for visualizing, 
configuring, and managing the 
network. Deployed through 
a services model, Network 
Director API abstracts L2/L3 
connectivity as well as security 
device configuration complexity, 
letting orchestration applications 
employ real-world, context-based 
terminology to enable services 
across Juniper infrastructure. 

Product Description
Juniper Networks® Junos® Space Network Director API offers open interfaces and easy 
programmability. A RESTful implementation of these APIs enables easy consumption and 
integration with third-party orchestration tools, including CloudStack and OpenStack. The 
Network Director API enables network management functions, including:

•  Provisioning of secure multi-tenant networks in a shared network infrastructure 

•  Automation of tenant services in the data center 

•  Support for Layer 2 and Layer 3 security services 

•  Provision of a single point of integration with external cloud automation and DevOps 

orchestration tools 

This approach enables cloud administrators and DevOps teams to rapidly roll out complex 
networking architectures in an easy, flexible, and self-service model, enabling the end user to: 

•  Provision a fully secured, segmented multi-tenant cloud (private, hybrid, or public) 

environment within seconds

•  Eliminate manual operation errors through service automation and self-healing 

mechanisms

•  Reduce complexity by abstracting complex networking topologies to simple models

With Junos Space Network Director API, end users model the network in their orchestration 
system based on requirements, which are automatically translated via extensible 
mediation logic and then activated programmatically by the orchestration system and 
provided on-demand without the need for manual operator intervention.

Some of the common use cases for Network Director API are shown in Table 1 below.

Table 1. Network Director API Use Cases

Use Case

Benefit

Enterprise IT as a Service 
(ITaaS)

Multi-tenant Infrastructure as a 
Service (IaaS) 

DevOps automation

Enterprise IT departments can easily leverage their private 
cloud automation toolsets (OpenStack, CloudStack, etc.) and 
roll out complex network topologies in their environment.

Cloud service providers can define network containers and 
expose them to tenants, who can activate these containers in 
a self-service manner.

Network Director API exposes the infrastructure as abstract 
objects to the DevOps automation toolset, enabling DevOps 
teams to use their favorite scripting language to roll out 
networking infrastructure along with server and storage. 

Your ideas. Connected.™

1

Data SheetArchitecture and Key Components
Complete Lifecycle Management

Network Director API will run installed on the Juniper Networks 
Junos Space platform (see Figure 1). 

The Network Director API service model consists of the following 
components:

•  Service Mediation: Translate service definition to network 

configuration

•  Service Catalog: Define lists of services based on 

capabilities and publish them

•  Service Model: Create an object hierarchy to represent 

services in device independent fashion

•  Service Administration: Manage and administer how 

services are defined and implemented

•  REST API Service: Support REST API for external 

consumption

NETWORK

DIRECTOR GUI

NETWORK
DIRECTOR

THIRD-PARTY APPLICATIONS

NETWORK DIRECTOR REST API

Service
Catalog

Service
Model

Service

Mediation

Service

Administration

Network Director

Orchestration Services

JUNOS SPACE PLATFORM

Device and Network
Abstraction Services

Infrastructure

Services

Network Device Management Interface (DMI)

Figure 1: Network Director API architecture 

Network Director API orchestration services provide: 

•  Support for a variety of predefined physical topology 

configurations, ranging from a single device to a complete 
complex data center infrastructure

•  Flexible and extensible network service API that enables 
the definition of endpoints, connectivity between L2 and 
L3 endpoints, and policy applications, including those for 
security and class of service 

Network Director API orchestration services are based on the 
Network as a Service (NaaS) model management system. NaaS 
consists of two logical components—NaaS server and NaaS domain.

•  The NaaS server runs in the Junos Space infrastructure and 

manages the NaaS domain so that it appears to network 
administrators and tenants as a single device with a set of 
revenue ports, which are data ports on Juniper Networks 
devices. In a typical data center environment, compute 
servers are attached to revenue ports through which NaaS 
service is provided. Network Director API operations are 
performed using the NaaS service. 

•  The NaaS domain represents the network infrastructure 

that the NaaS server manages. All elements in the domain, 
both physical and logical, are represented internally 
as instances of model classes in the Network Director 
orchestration services repository. The state of the elements 
in the repository is synchronized with the state in the 
NaaS domain by way of read-and-write activities such 
as discovery, configuration, and other events that occur in 
the management network. Network Director orchestration 
services provide role-based access control for network 
administrators. The administrator has administrative and 
configuration privileges and can perform administrative 
operations, including: 

 - Configuring the network infrastructure 

 - Performing basic create, read, update, and delete (CRUD) 

operations on all elements of the service model such as 
tenants, endpoints, connectivity groups, policies, and rules

 - Activating and deactivating NaaS server

Network Director orchestration services expose a set of REST 
APIs that are accessible through standard web-based HTTP 
requests. APIs send requests to NaaS service resources to 
perform HTTP CRUD operations. The NaaS resources are 
represented in either the JavaScript Object Notification (JSON) 
or Extensible Markup Language (XML), and requests sent to the 
resource Universal Resource Identifier (URI) may be in either the 
JSON or XML format.

The NaaS resources or services are grouped into classes by the 
type of service. For example: 

•  ConnectivityGroup: Provides NaaS service for a connectivity 

group consisting of endpoints (endpoints could be ports, 
virtual machines, or applications)

•  L2ConnectivityServices: Provides L2 connectivity services 

•  SecurityPolicies: Provides NaaS services to enable security 

policies 

2

Data SheetJunos Space Network Director APISample Network Director API Deployment 
Scenario with OpenStack
Network Director API can automate complex topologies and 
enable cloud administrators to use uber-cloud orchestration 
elements such as OpenStack to easily deliver different network 
deployment models in a self-service manner. For example, once 
a network administrator conducting a standard Web client and 
Web server deployment has pushed the initial configuration via 
the Network Director API static configuration, it is possible to 
import the stable network topology into the API and proceed with 
repetitive operations. A sample repetitive deployment scenario 
would be as follows: 

Features and Benefits
Network Director API is a software application that simplifies the 
consumption of connectivity services, which are enabled by a 
rich set of Juniper device capabilities in the data center domain. 
It does this by decoupling service request specifications from 
service implementation (configuration) to enable:

1.  Virtualization of cloud/data center network operations by 

providing location/device and technology independent 
definition, modification, activation, deactivation, and deletion 
of NaaS requests

2.  Provisioning of multiple secure multi-tenant networks on a 

shared network infrastructure 

1.  Create virtual machine: OpenStack Nova creates and 

3.  A single point for integration with external cloud/data center 

schedules VMs (Web client and server). 

orchestration tools 

2.  Create network: Create_port ()on Juniper Neutron plugin to 

Table 2: Supported Devices, Topologies, and Services

create L2 domains for both VMs invoking Juniper plugin. 

3.  Juniper Neutron plugin invokes Network Director API for L2: 
VLANs are created on the physical switch and open virtual 
switch.

4. Security policy: Network Director API creates security policy 

on Juniper Networks SRX Series Services Gateways, restricting 
Web client to only send http/https traffic to Web server.

5. Internet access: Network Director API creates integrated 

routing and bridging (IRB) to facilitate Layer 3 connectivity. 

These complex deployments ensure the proper configuration 
of L2, L3, and security services, and are done within seconds—
without operator intervention and achieving cloud scale. 

Supported Devices

Topologies and Services

•  Juniper Networks EX Series Ethernet 

Layer 2

Switches (EX4200, EX4550, 
and EX4550 with Virtual Chassis 
technology)

•  Juniper Networks QFabric Systems 

(QFX3000-G and QFX3000-M); 
Juniper Networks QFX Series 
(QFX3500 and QFX3600 switches) 

•  EX Series or QFX Series switch 

connected to a Juniper Networks 
MX Series 3D Universal Edge Router 

•  QFabric System connected to an 

MX Series router 

•  EX Series or QFX Series switch 

connected to an MX Series router 
and SRX Series gateway 

•  QFabric System connected to an 
MX Series router and SRX Series 
gateway

Layer 2
Layer 2 and Layer 3 with 
Internet access

Layer 2
Layer 2 and Layer 3 with 
firewall
Layer 2 and Layer 3 with 
Internet access
Layer 2 and Layer 3 with 
firewall and Internet access

Neutron APIs

Neutron Plugin

Network Director API

DMI/Netconf

Data Center

GW (MX Series)

EX9200

or

QFabric System

EX Series

or QFX Series

SRX Series

Web Client

Web Server

Storage

vSwitch

vGW
Virtual
Gateway

ESXi

Figure 2: Network Director API integration with OpenStack

3

Data SheetJunos Space Network Director APIAbout Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services.  

Ordering Information 
To order Juniper Networks Testing Services or for additional 
information, please contact your Juniper account manager. 

The Juniper Networks Testing Services can be ordered using the 
part number shown in the table below. Before Testing Services 
begin, a statement of work (SOW) will be established outlining 
the scope of effort to be performed. 

Model Number

Name

PRO-DC-MIG-ASSESS

Data Center Migration and Risk Mitigation 
Assessment

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2015 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetJunos Space Network Director API1000479-001-EN   Mar 2015