Junos Space Virtual Director

Product Overview

Innovative virtualization and 
cloud computing technologies 
can have a profoundly positive 
impact on the way organizations 
of all sizes deliver IT services. 
Cloud-based services are 
dynamic and cater to fluctuating 
consumption. Provisioning 
and decommissioning services 
frequently demand an automated 
approach to management. Junos 
Space Virtual Director optimizes 
operational efficiency and 
reliability by providing a lifecycle 
management application that 
enables organizations to automate 
provisioning and resource 
allocation of virtual machines 
associated with Juniper’s virtual 
security services via a simplified 
and intuitive user interface.

Product Description 
Increasingly, organizations are looking at leveraging virtual and cloud computing 
technologies to enhance competitive differentiation. But as computing shifts to the cloud, 
the network, compute, storage, and application layers are abstracted from the physical 
servers creating workloads that are dynamically transitioning within a shared pool of 
resources. Aiming to reduce time to market and the overall cost associated with introducing 
new services, organizations are seeking solutions that will automate the creation and 
management of virtualized services and the virtual machines (VMs) associated with them, 
providing the speed and agility they need. 

Security for virtualized assets should be as agile as the assets it protects. Juniper virtual 
security solutions enable organizations to fully benefit from the cloud by providing secure 
connectivity with multilevel policies that protect agile workloads and dynamic changes 
in traffic and content. Juniper Networks® Junos® Space Virtual Director automates the 
instantiation of VMs for Juniper’s virtual security services, expediting service rollouts and 
reducing errors. Virtual Director offers VM lifecycle management, real-time information 
on the virtual network, a GUI that is intuitive and easy to navigate, and task-oriented 
workflows. An open set of REST APIs provide a single interface to all third-party 
orchestration tools for end-to-end configuration and management.

Architecture and Key Components
Junos Space Virtual Director is a key component of the Juniper Networks Firefly security 
suite. Junos Space Virtual Director provides an elegant, comprehensive, and automated 
VM management solution that enables administrators to automate the provisioning and 
resource allocation of Juniper Networks Firefly Perimeter virtual firewall. Key elements of 
Junos Space Virtual Director include:

•  Automated lifecycle management of Firefly Perimeter VMs from provisioning to 

decommissioning

•  Automated identification and categorization of VM groups

•  Open REST APIs for integration with third-party management platforms

• 

Intuitive, easy-to-navigate user interface with task-oriented workflows and pre-tested 
configurations

Features and Benefits

•  Lower operational and capital expenditures with VM lifecycle management functions 

from provisioning to decommissioning that are integrated into a single application

•  Scaling elastically based on demand, with automatic identification and categorization 

to appropriate monitoring groups

•  Security from the get-go with default bootstrap settings for the management IP 

Your ideas. Connected.™

address and root password assigned to the VMs when they are created 

1

Data Sheet•  Faster service rollouts with zero touch and bulk provisioning 

of VMs, leveraging predefined templates, automated tasks, 
and pre-validated configurations 

•  Reduced human error with a task-oriented workflow and 

web-based intuitive GUI

•  Comprehensive view with automated discovery, display, 

and management of all Juniper VMs through integration with 
Junos Space and VMware vCenter

•  Access and integration with dynamic hybrid cloud 
environments with a rich set of APIs for third-party 
applications and management platforms

•  Consistent security policy management across the entire IT 
environment, with automatic registration of Firefly Perimeter 
instances with the Juniper Networks Junos Space Platform 
and Junos Space Security Director, the same tools used to 
manage physical firewalls

Full Lifecycle Management

Junos Space Virtual Director is an application running on top of 
Juniper’s well-established Junos Space network management 
platform. 

The Junos Space Virtual Director dashboard displays the system 
health of your network and provides a snapshot of the current 
status of objects managed and operations performed. As shown 
in Figure 1, the simple and intuitive user interface supports design, 
deployment, monitoring, grouping, and reporting of firewall 
VM instances. It can also be used to allocate resources and 
decommission VMs. VMware vCenter serves as a virtualization 
provider for Virtual Director.

Reports

Design

Group

Deploy

Monitor

Figure 1: Junos Space Virtual Director, a full lifecycle  

management application for virtual machines

Each stage of the lifecycle is managed from Virtual Director as 
shown in Figure 2 and discussed in detail in the sections below.

 Figure 2:  Junos Space Virtual Director management dashboard

Design 

Junos Space Virtual Director provides a single pane of glass 
to manage virtualized networks across multiple locations and 
multiple VMware vCenters. VMs can be created by selecting the 
desired image from the image library. Associating an image to a 
VM can be easily accomplished and the mapping can be applied 
to a single VM or a collection of VMs.  Templates are provided 
to automate the configurations of VMs and reduce any human 
errors. Each template defines all the parameters a VM requires 
to execute an instance of Juniper’s virtual security service. Such 
parameters can be the number of CPUs, memory size, disk space, 
number of network interface cards (NICs), network address, etc. 
Figure 3 depicts choices of virtualization provider types. 

Figure 3: Virtualization provider view  

Deploy

Built for the dynamic nature of cloud deployments, Junos Space 
Virtual Director provides organizations the ability to provision 
VMs in a matter of minutes. VMs can be deployed from a central 
location based on predefined configurations in the templates. 
These configurations can be fine-tuned to modify the password 
or IP address for customizing deployments. Junos Space Virtual 
Director is aware of the network and server configurations, 
offering an easy-to-use wizard with drop-down menus that guide 
the deployment and provide real-time information. 

Virtual Director injects the settings into the newly instantiated VM so 
that it can be managed and automatically registered into the Junos 
Space Platform. Figure 4 shows the basic deployment options.

2

Data SheetJunos Space Virtual DirectorFigure 4: Deployment view

Figure 6: Task-oriented workflow, VM groups.

Monitor 

Once the virtual security instance is deployed within the virtual 
machine host provider, Virtual Director monitors and displays the 
characteristics of each instance such as VM deployment status, 
resource allocation, connection status, CPU and memory usage. 
This information is maintained in a database that can be sorted 
and filtered. The autodiscovery capabilities provide insight into 
Juniper’s security service VM inventory, regardless of whether or 
not VMs were provisioned via Junos Space Virtual Director. Figure 
5 shows the status of VMs.

Report

Junos Space Virtual Director stores the historic deployment 
information in a database. Administrators can access this report 
to gain insight and use the status mode to receive e-mail alerts 
on deployment failures.

Managing Firefly Perimeter Security Policy via 
Security Director 

Junos Space Security Director enables consistency in the 
creation, distribution, and management of security policies 
across the entire IT environment, both virtual and physical 
networks. This reach improves security policy consistency as 
networks scale. Administrators can use Junos Space Security 
Director for managing the security policy horizontally across 
multiple Juniper virtual and physical firewalls (Firefly Perimeter as 
well as Juniper Networks SRX Series Services Gateways). 

As both applications run on the open Junos Space Network 
Management Platform, Junos Space Virtual Director with Junos 
Space Security Director provides security management building 
blocks with extensive security scale, policy control, and reach 
across the network.

Figure 5: Monitor view 

Junos Space 

Group

Monitoring groups of VMs rather than individual VMs significantly 
reduces administration overhead. Virtual Director supports 
two group types: static groups and smart groups. VMs can be 
assigned manually to static groups. Smart groups allow for 
dynamic association of VMs to groups by defining a set of rules 
based on content, network and custom attributes as shown in 
Figure 6. A VM that matches these rules automatically becomes 
a member of the smart group.

Junos Space is Juniper’s comprehensive network management 
solution that simplifies and automates management of 
Juniper’s switching, routing, and security devices. The Junos 
Space Network Management Platform provides deep element 
management for extensive fault configuration, accounting, 
performance, and security management (FCAPS) capability, 
same day support for new devices and Junos releases, a task-
specific user interface, and northbound APIs to easily integrate 
into existing network management system (NMS) or operations 
and business support system (OSS/BSS) deployments. 

Extending the breadth of the Junos Space Platform are multiple 
Junos Space management applications that optimize network 
management for various domains. With easy-to-use interfaces, 
these applications enable you to provision new services across 
thousands of devices, and they optimize work flow tasks for 
specific domains such as core, edge, data center, campus, 
security, mobile, and more.  

3

Data SheetJunos Space Virtual DirectorJuniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

Supported Virtualized Security Services

Juniper Networks Firefly Perimeter is a comprehensive virtual 
security product  based on Juniper’s industry-proven Junos OS-
based SRX Series Services Gateways code. It is delivered in a VM 
form factor and can be deployed on virtual servers and across 
software-defined networks (SDNs).

Firefly Perimeter offers virtual firewall with Junos OS Network 
Address Translation (NAT), routing, and VPN connectivity 
features—all in a flexible VM format, making it the perfect choice 
for protecting both the network and virtual assets.

By leveraging fast, highly available security and routing 
capabilities in a single virtual instance, enterprises and service 
providers alike can economically connect, secure, and manage 
workloads while delivering new value-added services, safe 
connectivity, and a satisfying end-user experience.  

Integration APIs

Virtual Director REST APIs allow interoperability with a variety 
of systems and custom applications (billing systems, end-user 
portals, custom scripts, etc.).  This flexibility allows the solution 
to be fully integrated into existing automation processes, which 
saves money and time.

Specifications 
Client Browser Support

•  Supports Internet Explorer version 8.0 or later; Mozilla Firefox 

version 20 or later; Google Chrome version 26 or later

VMware Version

•  Junos Space works with VMware vSphere 4.0 and above. 

•  Virtual Director supports VMware vSphere 5.0 and 5.1.

  Note: Juniper Networks Contrail can be used to provision and deploy Firefly 

Perimeter for KVM. Junos Space Virtual Director is currently intended for 
VMware environments only.

Juniper Platforms

•  Virtual Director supports Firefly Perimeter running 

12.1X46-D10 and above.

•  Virtual Director runs on Space server 13.1P1.14. 

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2014 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetJunos Space Virtual Director1000490-001-EN  Oct 2014