SBR Carrier

Product Overview

Product Overview. In order 
to succeed in today’s 
hypercompetitive markets, service 
providers must offer a wide range 
of wired and wireless services and 
efficiently unify their service layer 
into a single infrastructure that 
addresses the high volume and 
complexity of AAA requirements 
across all access services.

Juniper Networks SBR Carrier1 
is a comprehensive, reliable, 
scalable, and extensible AAA 
server that delivers the access 
control, fine-grained service 
authorization, service delivery, and 
accounting functions needed by 
wired, wireless, and unified service 
providers offering integrated 
access services.

1Formerly known as Steel-Belted Radius Carrier

Your ideas. Connected.™

Product Description
Juniper Networks® SBR Carrier is a high-performance authentication, authorization, and 
accounting (AAA) server that enables access-independent differentiated services and 
efficient network resource management. SBR Carrier also enhances network security by 
centralizing subscriber authentication, controlling the level of subscriber access, authorizing 
service delivery, and ensuring compliance with security policies as well as delivering 
accounting data to billing systems. 

SBR Carrier integrates with current subscriber management infrastructures and existing 
subscriber management systems such as Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP), 
SQL, Home Location Register (HLR), Home Subscriber Server (HSS), and public key 
infrastructure (PKI) databases, making it easy to deploy in new and existing networks. This 
integration ensures the delivery of all accounting data to billing systems, business support 
systems (BSS), and operations support systems (OSS) elements, guaranteeing proper 
authentication and billing for all subscribers.  

SBR Carrier meets stringent uptime demands with state-of-the-art reliability features that 
include load balancing and redundancy across authentication and accounting systems. 
With an optional Session State Registrar (SSR) component, SBR Carrier can be deployed 
as an AAA cluster that enables true carrier-grade high availability (HA) and scales to 
handle thousands of RADIUS and DIAMETER requests per second.

SBR Carrier provides flexible interfaces that enable global deployment by allowing for 
easy customization of regional, specific BSS and OSS rules and regulations, regardless of 
network access technology, regulatory requirements, or changes in business intelligence.

SBR Carrier also offers innovative service creation through support of schema adaptation 
and both centralized and distributed subscriber data management. In addition, SBR Carrier 
speeds time to market for new network access technologies by deploying all new services 
from the same AAA server platform while leveraging prior integration with custom back-
end OSS and BSS systems.

SBR Carrier’s extensibility enables the convergence of multiple AAA server technologies 
onto a single AAA platform. SBR Carrier can be placed in front of existing AAA servers 
that are in either local or remote central offices. SBR Carrier can merge both existing and 
acquired AAA servers and their associated back-end infrastructure into a common, state-
of-the-art, and redundant back-end infrastructure system.

SBR Carrier has been successfully deployed in more than 200 wired and wireless service 
provider networks in more than 60 countries. These include a public Wi-Fi deployment in 
the underground of one of Europe’s largest cities; an in-flight Wi-Fi system for a large U.S. 
carrier; a connected car service for a major European brand; and a connected truck fleet 
service in North America. 

1

Data SheetLDAP

HLR
HSS

SQL

PKI Custom

Network

Supported Access Networks

xDSL

Femtocell

Satellite

GPRS

UMTS

FTTx

EVDO

VPN

UMA

LTE

DialupWLAN

xDSL

HSxPA

Juniper Networks SBR Carrier

Figure 1: SBR Carrier supports a broad range of network access technologies and subscriber management data stores2

Architecture and Key Components
SBR Carrier is a standards-based AAA server that implements 
Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) and Third-Generation 
Partnership Project (3GPP) standards.

SBR Carrier supports the broadest range of wireline (including 
xDSL [via Point-to-Point Protocol over Ethernet, or PPPoE, 
enhanced integration and lawful intercept], fiber to the home 
[FTTH] and VPN) and wireless (including 3GPP, UMA/femtocell, 
WLAN [802.1X], and LTE access types).

SBR Carrier provides a feature-rich AAA server platform that 
scales to meet the rigorous requirements of the largest network 
service providers, including: 

•  Broadband Providers: SBR Carrier enables authentication 
and service delivery at per-user and per-device levels (e.g., 
network enhanced residential gateway, or NERG). 

•  Carriers/Wholesale Service Providers: With its market-

leading transaction rate, SBR Carrier can handle even the 
busiest networks. Its robust RADIUS proxy support enables 
wholesale services to any customer regardless of network 
infrastructure. SBR Carrier also supports LTE 3GPP use cases 
such as voice over IP (VoIP) via a DIAMETER module.

•  Wholesale Service Customers/Mobile Virtual Network 

Operators (MVNOs): Capacity can be sourced from user-
selected carriers; accounting mechanisms support usage-
based services.

•  Converged Carriers: Support for wired and wireless networks 

enables AAA infrastructure consolidation onto a single AAA 
server platform that can be distributed or centralized at a few 
key sites.

•  Mobile Operators: SBR Carrier verifies subscriber credentials 

for mobile services/Internet access, assigns IP addresses, 
manages service delivery, and integrates with billing and 
provisioning systems.

Managed Services/Outsource Service Providers: Supports 
centralized management of all customer data and service 
delivery requirements or leverages RADIUS proxy authentication 
requests to a RADIUS or DIAMETER server at customer 
sites, enabling providers to maintain control of their own 
authentication databases at the lowest cost. Authenticated end 
users may be consumers, employees, fleet vehicles, connected 
cars or connected objects. 

2  Note: WiMAX, CDMA, and UMA/Femtocell support requires mobility modules.

2

Data SheetSBR CarrierFeature

Benefit

Single, comprehensive AAA server 
platform

• 

Improves operational efficiency by simplifying AAA server and subscriber management database 
infrastructure deployment and management.

•  Reduces OpEx and CapEx by using a common AAA server platform across wired and wireless networks, 

eliminating single function/silo AAA infrastructure, duplicate or low-performance platforms.

•  Resolves subscriber authentication issues associated with the unification of disparate networks with 

disparate subscriber management systems. 

•  Provides the flexibility to leave existing subscriber management systems in place even as the 

authentication service layer is consolidated. 

•  Permits user migration from one authentication method to another, allowing concurrent support for 

outdated databases while new systems are introduced. 

•  Extends new services to subscribers without significant impact to current infrastructure. Some new 

service offerings might require considering new or additional user credentials or session service-level 
information as an element of the initial authentication or authorization of the user onto the network. 
With SBR Carrier, the authentication sequence can be adapted to locate information in new fields 
in existing records or new fields that are located in a completely new database, allowing maximum 
flexibility in managing network access.

•  Authenticates against one or more SQL or LDAP databases concurrently, even when they are from 

different vendors and regardless of back-end authentication requirements, which provides investment 
protection when maintaining legacy subscriber management systems during AAA migration.

•  Enables on-the-fly user profile changes (change of authorization), lawful intercept, or disconnect 
messages by sending dynamic authorization requests to the home NAS, either directly or through 
reverse proxy.

•  Easily virtualized on Linux or Solaris platforms and fully aligned with major virtualization initiatives such 

as virtual EPC (vEPC). 

•  Scales to handle thousands of RADIUS requests per second.
•  “Pay-as-you-grow” licensing model permits cost-effective AAA scale from 50,000 to millions of 

• 

subscribers by increasing subscriber session licenses. 
Improves reliability by forwarding or load-balancing RADIUS proxy requests made to multiple backup 
target servers in the service-layer infrastructure.

•  Optional SSR module can be used to build an AAA cluster that enables true carrier-grade high 

availability with N+1 redundancy and stateful resiliency.

•  Can be flexibly deployed in place of—or in front of—existing AAA servers. 
•  Widest range of back-end LDAP and SQL authentication database support (and optionally HLRs and 
HSSs) ensures compatibility with existing infrastructure and meets new authentication requirements 
such as LTE.

•  Compatibility with commonly used subscriber management and billing systems allows SBR Carrier 
to authenticate users against one or more existing user credential data stores, which is particularly 
useful when integrating acquired subscribers or transitioning between legacy and new subscriber 
management database systems.

•  Captures and centralizes subscriber state from multiple AAA servers, which enables new revenue 

streams based on service personalization, enhanced video delivery, and targeted advertising. 

•  Eliminates fraud in access networks via network-wide user concurrency checking and by eliminating the 

• 

possibility of having out-of-sync user information on different RADIUS servers.
Increases fault tolerance and redundancy in the AAA infrastructure with the ability to store volatile 
subscriber session data in a back-end server cluster, which provides true stateful redundancy and 
mirroring.

•  Centralizing IP address pools in a single network location simplifies administration by eliminating the 

need to separate IP pools into multiple groupings per RADIUS server, Dynamic Host Configuration 
Protocol (DHCP) server, or NAS.

•  Extends the SDN domain to subscriber management by mapping subscriber sessions to service chains. 

For example, a service chain may offer a parental control network function; based on the subscriber 
profile, SBR can instruct elements to send specific subscriber traffic to the parental services chain.

Carrier-grade scale and high 
availability

Interoperability

Optional SSR module

SDN-ready

Comprehensive logging and 
accounting

•  Fully supports RADIUS accounting, seamlessly integrates with accounting and billing systems, and 

offers complete flexibility for session data management. 

•  Logs all authentication transactions, so that the entire history of authentication requests and responses 

can be viewed; when used with access devices supporting RADIUS accounting, shows exactly who’s 
connected anywhere, at any time, and how long each user was connected.

•  Authentication, accounting, proxy request, and other statistics can be viewed dynamically.
•  Generates fully searchable reports on Current Sessions, Successful/Failed Authentication Requests, 

Unknown Client Requests, and Invalid Shared Secret Requests. 

•  RADIUS accounting log files can be easily exported to spreadsheets, databases, and custom billing 

software. Accounting data can also be logged directly to a single SQL database or specify multiple SQL 
target servers.

•  Can spool accounting data from distributed RADIUS servers to a central billing system, which 

guarantees delivery in the event of a system failure, eliminates lost accounting records and duplicate 
entries, removes the need for local data backup and batch processing, and facilitates real-time usage 
tracking for services such as prepaid Internet access cards.

•  Allows subscriber data and billing information to be separated between multiple organizations—

especially useful for wholesale service providers who must ensure that accurate accounting and billing 
information is captured and shared in real time with wholesale and/or MVNO customers/partners. 

3

Data SheetSBR CarrierFeature

Benefit

Broad and flexible authentication

•  SBR Carrier runs any LDAP filter or SQL query for the greatest flexibility in retrieving information, 
enabling simple subscriber data management even when information is spread across multiple 
subscriber databases. The authentication sequence is also extended to include new information fields 
required for creating service offerings stored in new or existing databases.

•  Retrieves stored RADIUS attributes and profiles from back-end databases that can be returned to the 

network access equipment, often combining data from several locations to build a comprehensive 
authorization profile before sending it back to the network.

•  Flexibly adapts to existing BSS environments through various accounting methods. SBR Carrier can 

authenticate roaming users via RADIUS proxy requests to RADIUS servers at other sites that have the 
necessary user credential database against which to authenticate.

Optional Java scripting module

•  Easily modified to support custom business logic even when heavily customized data schemas and 

formats are already in place, or to inject customized business intelligence into the network.

Advanced RADIUS proxy 
capabilities

 Enables redundancy and supports roaming, wholesale services, and managed services.

• 
•  Enables wholesale service providers to open up their network and provide managed authentication 
services, or map their AAA server infrastructure to their customers’ own sparse-dense mode (SDM) 
infrastructure, which is beneficial to MVNOs that want to manage and control their subscribers’ identity 
and authentication credentials within their own SDM systems. 

•  Allows service providers delivering managed services to send service authentication requests to RADIUS 

servers at customer sites, letting end customers manage their own SDM system.

•  Flexibly supports multiple ways to set up RADIUS proxy users:

 −   User name decorations can be specified to indicate a proxy target—for example, a user would 

connect using george@myisp rather than simply george.

 −   Allows proxies to be configured based on any attribute or combination of attributes, or based on 

scripted logic.

 −   Provides proxy packet filtering and setup rules that govern how SBR Carrier handles packets that 
are forwarded to or received from target servers. For example, packet filters can add information 
to the packet, possibly from a database, to provide the downstream network with additional 
information. Or, they can remove attributes from the packets to hide information about the 
network’s characteristics from the downstream partner. Additionally, when a reply comes back from 
the downstream partner, attributes can be added or removed in a similar way, making sure that the 
response is appropriate for the network or the service level offered. These RADIUS proxy capabilities 
are essential for service providers that offer roaming services; are part of an ISP consortium; or have 
smaller, special-purpose RADIUS servers in place.

 −   Detects the health of downstream proxies—aka farm proxies—and can adapt forwarding based on 

proxy health, which ensures customer satisfaction.

• 

 Translates 3GPP RADIUS requests to DIAMETER 3GPP AAA requests, enabling legacy clients to take 
advantage of newer LTE infrastructure.

Simple to configure and maintain

•  Web GUI enables server administration from any machine, not just the one on which SBR Carrier is 

installed. 

•  Significantly reduces the time required to bring new devices and users online: simply cut and paste 

existing configuration settings for users, RADIUS clients, profiles, and RADIUS proxy targets; only update 
specific information required for new settings.

•  Centralized configuration management (CCM) feature allows a master copy of SBR Carrier to be 

replicated to all valid registered SBR Carrier replicas, saving time and eliminating human error. 
Configuration data on replicas can only be modified by pushing changes from the master server, 
preventing unanticipated configuration issues at a local level.
 Allows customers to monitor their SBR Carrier server infrastructure through their existing network 
management solutions via SNMP. SBR Carrier reports activity and all critical system functions to 
centralized SNMP management agents in accordance with the IETF and proprietary MIBs.

• 

Enhanced security

•  Offers password access protocol support:

 −   Password Authentication Protocol (PAP), Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol (CHAP), 

MS-CHAP v2, Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP), EAP Subscriber Identity Module (SIM), EAP 
Authentication and Key Agreement (AKA), EAP Tunneled Transport Layer Security, (TTLS), EAP 
Transport Layer Security (TLS)

Product Options
Juniper offers a number of optional SBR Carrier modules under 
separate license that enable additional functions: 

•  SCM

•  SIM

•  HLR Gateway

•  Session State Registrar (SSR)

•  Diameter

•  Scripting 

•  Concurrency

Session State Registrar Module 

The Session State Registrar (SSR) module removes session 
information from individual front-end AAA servers and 
consolidates it into a single, common session data store 
cluster that leverages cluster technology. Separating the SBR 
Carrier front-end processes from back-end data functions that 
take place on two or four SSR data servers, the SSR module 
implements a reliable and highly available AAA platform.

This innovative AAA network architecture provides true stateful 
redundancy through server cluster mirroring; provides greater 
scale and throughput on the front end through the addition 
of AAA servers where they are needed, and on the back end 

4

Data SheetSBR Carrierby adding cluster nodes; and allows the mapping of business 
logic associated with network and application services with the 
subscriber profiles of the active subscribers on the network. 

The SBR Carrier SSR module implements a scalable, reliable, 
high availability AAA platform. Multiple servers of different types 
(data, management, and SBR Carrier) perform certain aspects 
of SBR Carrier operation. The servers collaborate to share a 
common session database and a common IP address pool, 
and to provide a high level of redundancy. The common shared 
resources can be accessed simultaneously by up to 20 SBR 
Carrier servers.

Data

Management

Billing

Services

SQL/LDAP/CLI/HTTPS

Session State

Registrar

SBR Carrier

SBR Carrier

High Availability
Session State

Data Base

SBR Carrier

SBR Carrier

RADIUS/RADIUS CoA

Network

Figure 2: SBR Carrier with its SSR module deployed in a cluster 

configuration

SBR Carrier front-end servers and SSR back-end servers 
collaborate to create a virtual AAA server that provides:

•  High availability (HA)

•  State preservation during failover between front-end SBR 

Carrier nodes

•  Application session awareness

•  Centralized IP address management

DIAMETER Module

The DIAMETER module supports 3GPP AAA LTE interoperability 
through the SWa, SWd, SWm, SWx, and S6b interfaces. Use 
cases include voice over IP (VoIP), voice over LTE (VoLTE), and 
voice over Wi-Fi (VoWiFi).

SIM Module

The SBR Carrier optional SIM authentication module enables 
Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) and universal 
mobile telecommunications system (UMTS) service providers 
to provide wireless data access to subscribers, based on the 
authentication of their SIM credentials against the existing HLR 
infrastructure and a leveraging of their existing customer care, 
roaming, and billing infrastructures.

The SBR Carrier SIM module allows service providers to deploy 
IP-based service access while leveraging their SS7-based 
authentication systems. It leverages existing HLR, billing interface 
support, and the SS7 or SIGTRAN networks already in place 
through the optional SIGTRAN software module. The SIM 
authentication module retrieves security information from an 
HLR to authenticate users or devices that use a provider’s SIM 
(GSM) or USIM (UMTS) cards. It enables all applications that use 
the authentication protocols EAP-SIM or EAP-AKA. Among those 
applications are:

•  Femtocell

•  Unlicensed Mobile Access (UMA)/Generic Access Network 

(GAN)

•  WLAN

•  Secured public hotspot

JavaScript Module

The scripting module enables SBR Carrier “fine-tuning” and can 
implement custom request processing logic. Scripts can be used 
to configure SBR Carrier to evaluate complex decision logic and 
manipulate RADIUS requests in ways that cannot be expressed 
through settings in the standard SBR Carrier initialization files.

SBR Carrier scripts are written in JavaScript, an easy-to-use, 
industry standard scripting language with a powerful, object-
based syntax. Scripts can supplement or override specific 
functional modules within the SBR Carrier by implementing 
custom processing logic written in JavaScript. JavaScript APIs 
allow scripts to perform tasks such as the following:

•  Manipulate RADIUS request and response attributes as they 

come into the server, passing through the server (including 
proxy), and/or leaving the server 

•  Centralized concurrency management (if optional 

Concurrency and Wholesale Module is installed on all SBR 
Carrier servers)

•  Select the processing realm for a request

•  Query external SQL and LDAP servers

•  Print information and debug messages to the server log

5

Data SheetSBR CarrierSession Control Module

The Session Control module lets customers make changes to 
active subscriber sessions without requiring the network access 
server (NAS) to initiate the change. For example, a service 
provider might want to terminate an active user’s session by 
issuing a Disconnect Message (DM) request to the NAS, or modify 
the authorization level of an active user’s session by issuing a 
Change of Authorization (CoA) request to the NAS. Under a 
different scenario, a service provider may be compelled to provide 
legal organizations with voice and data intercept capabilities 
as mandated by law; these might include access to private 
communications between organizations or individuals such 
as phone calls, e-mail, VoIP, or instant messaging. These legal 
intercept capabilities can be performed by issuing a CoA request. 

Using the Session Control module, service providers can customize 
the CoA/DM requests they want to support in their network. They 
can define actions that can be invoked on active sessions such as 
disconnecting an active session, increasing the bandwidth of an 
active session, or any other action they want to define. 

Concurrency Module

The optional Concurrency and Wholesale module works in the 
Session State Register environment, providing tools that can limit 
the number of active connections on a per-user, per-cluster basis. 
SBR Carrier also supports concurrency enforcement on attributes 
other than user name.

Specifications
SBR Carrier supports Linux (RHEL 6.1 or better) and Oracle 
Solaris SPARC hardware (Solaris 10 or 11). Virtualization is also 
supported (KVM and VMware on Linux, Logical Domains on 
Solaris). Juniper does not recommend overprovisioning.

Hardware Requirements: Linux
Standalone

•  Minimum: Xeon 4-core or 2x2-core at 2.0 GHz, 2 GB local 

HDD

•  Recommended: Xeon 2x6-core at 3.6 GHz or higher, 2 GB 

local HDD, 8 GB RAM

Cluster

•  Front-end and/or management nodes:

 -   Minimum: Xeon 4-core or 2x2-core, 2 GB local HDD, 8 
GB RAM (2 for management node only), 2 100 Base-T 
physical interfaces, multipath configuration

 -   Recommended: Xeon 2x4-core at 3.6 GHz or higher, 2 
GB HDD, 4 GB RAM, 2 100 Base-T physical interfaces, 
multipath configuration

•  Data nodes:

 -   Minimum: Xeon 4-core or 2x2-core at 2.4 GHz, 10 GB RAM, 
2 100 Base-T physical interfaces, multipath configuration 
(see below for HDD requirements)

 -   Recommended: Xeon 2x4-core at 3.6 GHz, more than 

10 GB RAM, 2 100 Base-T physical interfaces, multipath 
configuration (see below for HDD requirements)

Existing Subscriber Databases

LDAP

SQL

HLR

Databases
SQL

LDAP

Databases
SQL

LDAP

New Subscriber

Redundant Subscriber

Proxy AAA Destinations

PKI

HSS

PKI

HSS

Legacy

AAA

SBR Carrier

xDSL

Femtocell

Satellite

GPRS

UMTS

FTTx

EVDO

VPN

UMA

LTE

DialupWLAN

xDSL

HSxPA

Figure 3: SBR Carrier readily supports integration into back-end infrastructure

6

Data SheetSBR CarrierHardware Requirements: Solaris SPARC
Standalone

Model Number

Description

SBR Carrier Session State Registrar

•  Minimum: Two-CPU UltraSPARC IIIi processors or better, 

SBR-SSR-EXP

running at 1.5 GHz, 1 GB local HDD, 8 GB RAM

•  Recommended: UltraSPARC T1 or better, SPARC64 VII or 

better, SPARC T3 or better, 1 GB local HDD, 8 GB RAM

SBR-SSR-MNGMT

SBR Carrier Session State Registrar—Cluster 
expansion kit; consists of 2 cluster notes 
(license key only) 

SBR Carrier Session State Registrar—
Additional Management Node (license key 
only)

SBR Carrier Session State Registrar—Cluster 
starter kit; consists of 2 cluster nodes and 2 
management nodes (license key only)

SBR Carrier Session State Registrar—Cluster 
limited kit; consists of 2 cluster nodes and 
2 management nodes, limited to 100,000 
subscriber sessions (license key only)

SBR-SSR-START

SBR-SSR-LIMITED

Cluster

•  Front-end and/or management nodes:

 -   Minimum: UltraSPARC T1 or better, SPARC64 VII or better, 
SPARC T3 or better, 1 GB local HDD, 2 100 Base-T physical 
interfaces, multipath configuration

 -   Recommended: UltraSPARC T1 or better, SPARC64 or 

better, SPARC T3 or better, 4 GB RAM or more, 2 100 
Base-T physical interfaces, multipath configuration

•  Data nodes:

 -   Minimum: SPARC64 VII or better, 10 GB RAM, 2 100 Base-T 

physical interfaces, multipath configuration (see HDD 
requirements below)

 -   Recommended: SPARC64 VII at 2.53 GHz or better, 

more than 10 GB RAM, 2 100 Base-T physical interfaces, 
multipath configuration (see HDD requirements below)

 -   HDD requirements: for both Linux and Solaris, calculate 

the local disk space requirement based on the amount of 
RAM in the system; to calculate the minimum requirement 
for RAM, use the formula: (RAM - 4 G) * 12

Juniper Networks Services and Support

Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing cost and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services/services/technical-services/operate/#tab-
advanced-services. 

Model Number

Description

SBR Carrier

SBR-CAR-AAA-LX

SBR-CAR-AAA

SBR Carrier Core AAA server license for 
Linux; includes 50,000 concurrent sessions 
(license key only)

SBR Carrier Core AAA server license for 
Solaris; includes 50,000 concurrent 
sessions (license key only)

SBR Carrier Optional Modules

SBR-CAR-SIM

SBR-CAR-JSC

SBR-CAR-CWM

SBR-CAR-SCM

SBR-CAR-DIA

SBR Carrier AAA optional SIM 
Authentication module (license key only)

SBR Carrier AAA optional JavaScripting 
module (license key only)

SBR Carrier AAA optional Concurrency and 
Wholesale module (license key only)

SBR Carrier AAA optional Session Control 
module (license key only)

SBR Carrier AAA optional DIAMETER 
module

SBR Carrier HLR Access Options

SBR-HLR-SIG-LX

SBR-HLR-SIG

SBR-HLR-SIGADD-LX

SBR-HLR-SIGADD

SBR-HLR-SIG-
ADDASC-LX

SBR Carrier HLR Gateway—SIGTRAN stack 
for Linux (license key only)

SBR Carrier HLR Gateway—SIGTRAN stack 
for Solaris (license key only)

SBR Carrier HLR Gateway—Add SIGTRAN 
stack to existing SS7 install (includes 2 
SIGTRAN associations) for Linux

SBR Carrier HLR Gateway—Add SIGTRAN 
stack to existing SS7 install (includes 2 
SIGTRAN associations for Solaris)

SBR Carrier HLR Gateway—Upgrade 
SIGTRAN stack with 2 additional SIGTRAN 
associations for Linux

SBR-HLR-SIGADDASC SBR Carrier HLR Gateway—Upgrade 

SIGTRAN stack with 2 additional SIGTRAN 
associations for Solaris

SBR Carrier Current Session Licenses

SBR-CAR-ADD-50K 

SBR-CAR-ADD-100K

SBR-CAR-ADD-250K

SBR-CAR-ADD-500K

SBR-CAR-ADD-1M

SBR-CAR-ADD-2M

SBR Carrier—Add 50,000 concurrent 
sessions (license key only)

SBR Carrier—Add 100,000 concurrent 
sessions (license key only)

SBR Carrier—Add 250,000 concurrent 
sessions (license key only)

SBR Carrier—Add 500,000 concurrent 
sessions (license key only)

SBR Carrier—Add 1,000,000 concurrent 
sessions (license key only)

SBR Carrier—Add 2,000,000 concurrent 
sessions (license key only)

SBR Carrier Current Session Licenses

SBR-CAR-TPS-500

SBR-CAR-TPS-1000

SBR-CAR-TPS-2000

SBR-CAR-TPS-5000

SBR Carrier—Support for up to 500 
transactions/second/server (license only)

SBR Carrier—Support for up to 1,000 
transactions/second/server (license only)

SBR Carrier—Support for up to 2,000 
transactions/second/server (license only)

SBR Carrier—Support for up to 5,000 
transactions/second/server (license only)

SBR-CAR-TPS-10000 SBR Carrier—Support for up to 10,000 

transactions/second/server (license only)

SBR-CAR-TPS-UNLIM SBR Carrier—Support for unlimited proxy 

transactions per server (license only)

7

Data SheetSBR CarrierAbout Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2016 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetSBR Carrier1000295-005-EN  Mar 2016