proNX Management and  
Control Software

Product Overview

The proNX management and 
control software suite from 
Juniper Networks streamlines 
the deployment and operation of 
next-generation metro and cloud 
networks. This SDN-enabled 
management and control 
software helps cloud and service 
providers accelerate time to 
market, increase service velocity, 
improve customer satisfaction, 
and boost profitability by 
dramatically reducing network 
management cost and 
complexity while accelerating 
service automation.

Product Description  
The comprehensive Juniper Networks® proNX software portfolio provides centralized control 
for managing Juniper Networks BTI Series Packet Optical Transport Systems and Ethernet 
Access Devices, as well as other third-party network elements. The proNX software also 
includes an extensive collection of service provisioning, monitoring, and troubleshooting 
applications that leverage an open SDN approach. These applications include:

•  proNX Control: Centralized control engine with end-to-end service activation, 
monitoring, and troubleshooting plus fully functional northbound RESTful APIs

•  proNX Service Manager: Complete task-based management application, including 

point-and-click service provisioning, fault and performance monitoring, and 
comprehensive troubleshooting

•  proNX Dashboard: Targeted monitoring application, providing operations staff with 

intuitive insight into current network health, recent fault and performance trends, and 
resource utilization

•  proNX SLA Portal: Hosted access application, providing real-time and historical 

service-level assurance reporting

Architecture and Key Components
Built on a software-driven solutions architecture designed to unleash innovation, the BTI 
Series platforms support an open, layered, SDN networking architecture with distinct 
network, control, and application planes for ultimate scalability and extensibility. The 
centralized proNX control layer software manages BTI Series packet-optical transport and 
Ethernet access/aggregation platforms as well as third-party network elements, providing 
abstract northbound APIs that streamline integration with third-party management 
applications. The software-driven architecture enables the creation of highly adaptable and 
programmable networks that are ideally suited for today’s on-demand service environments.

Your ideas. Connected.™

1

Data SheetApplication So(cid:144)ware

proNX

Service Manager

proNX

Dashboard

proNX

SLA Portal

RESTful APIs

Control So(cid:144)ware

proNX Control So(cid:144)ware

Intelligent Network Infrastructure

NETCONF, SNMP

BTI7800

Line

BTI7000

Line

BTI800

Line

Third-Party

Network Nodes

Figure 1. Juniper Networks proNX software portfolio

proNX Software Product Line
proNX Control software is the cornerstone of the BTI Series 
software-enabled architecture. It provides a centralized control 
layer that facilitates end-to-end management and service 
orchestration across network elements and geographies. The 
software monitors and controls BTI Series platforms as well 
as third-party devices via industry-standard interfaces such as 
NETCONF and SNMP.

High-Level Application Programming Interfaces

The proNX Control software supports open northbound RESTful 
APIs that streamline integration with Juniper and third-party 
management applications such as higher layer SDN controllers, 
service orchestrators, and operations and business support 
systems (OSS/BSS). External applications like Juniper Networks 
NorthStar Controller and Junos® Space Connectivity Services 
Director can monitor network health; provision connections, 
bandwidth, and policies; and influence traffic flows in real time to 
enable on-demand services, optimize performance and service 
quality, and enforce service-level agreements (SLAs).

The proNX Control software accelerates service deployment and 
controls go-to-market expenses with abstract APIs that shield 
programmers from the complexities of the underlying networking 
infrastructure. Web developers who aren’t deeply versed in 
networking technology or the BTI Series platforms can create 
innovative applications quickly and easily with proNX.

Highly Scalable and Reliable Deployment Model

proNX Control supports a distributed client/server deployment 
model that enables high scalability and availability for 
management services. It runs on industry-standard x86 
Linux platforms, either in bare-metal form or in a virtualized 
environment. Multiple active proNX Control servers can 
be clustered to improve scalability and ensure continuous 
availability. The proNX Control servers can be geographically 
distributed to enable disaster recovery or support decentralized 
operations teams.

Open Soˆware-Driven Portfolio Delivering Scale,

Convergence, and Virtualization

Application Soˆware

proNX Service
Manager (PSM)
proNX SLA Portal
proNX Dashboard

BTI Series or 
Third-Party 
SDN Apps

BTI Series or 
Third-Party 
NFV Apps

BTI Series or 
Third-Party
Orchestration

Apps

RESTful APIs

Control Soˆware

proNX

Control Soˆware

REST

Open SDN
Controllers

Intelligent Network Infrastructure

NETCONF, SNMP, OpenFlow

BTI7800

Line

BTI7000

Line

BTI800

Line

Third-Party

Network Nodes

Figure 2. proNX SDN-ready architecture

proNX Service Manager
The proNX Service Manager application provides provisioning 
templates, configuration wizards, and one-click service activation 
features that eliminate manually intensive and error-prone 
tasks, accelerate bandwidth turn-up and capacity expansion, 
and simplify operations. Using an intuitive GUI, administrators 
can rapidly deploy new network resources and easily complete 
a wide variety of routine, day-to-day tasks across the entire BTI 
Series portfolio. High-level, service-centric views make it easy to 
provision, monitor, and troubleshoot end-to-end services; proNX 
Service Manager provides a simple visual representation of each 
service, along with its components and performance details.

2

Data SheetproNX Management and Control SoftwareproNX Dashboard
The proNX Dashboard delivers a concise view of the health and 
performance of all BTI Series platforms, including network-wide 
alarms and events as well as performance and inventory data. 
This is presented on a single screen, allowing users to drill down 
to access detailed information as required.

At-a-glance network-wide visibility helps network administrators 
quickly identify and resolve issues, often before customers 
are even aware they exist. Utilization data also provides rapid 
visibility into configured and consumed capacity, allowing users 
to easily identify where network resources are reaching their 
limits and enable proactive planning for network expansion. A 
browser-based interface provides easy access from any device—
PC, smartphone, or tablet.

proNX SLA Portal
The proNX SLA Portal provides tracking, reporting, and real-
time visibility into critical SLA data. Providers can define service 
levels, measure conformance, and gain visibility into real-time 
and historical information. The portal features a browser-based 
interface for defining and managing SLAs, while summary-level 
displays provide global visibility for all services. Detailed views 
break out specific SLA performance metrics such as jitter, latency, 
and throughput. The extensible proNX SLA Portal is easily 
partitioned, branded, and tailored for end-customer use.

In addition, through the same user interface, customers can 
modify individual services on demand to adjust bandwidth or 
service quality commitments for Ethernet virtual connections. 
This provides a powerful premium service that eliminates the 
elapsed time for service modifications, improving time to revenue 
and reducing operational costs.

Features and Benefits

•  Accelerates time-to-market and customer turn-up

•  Enables on-demand applications and elastic services

•  Optimizes service quality and customer satisfaction

•  Reduces ongoing operations costs and complexity

Technical Specifications
Supported Products

•  BTI7800 product line: BTI7814, BTI7802, BTI7801

•  BTI7000 product line: BTI7200, BTI7060, BTI7030, BTI7020

•  BTI700 product line: BTI702, BTI704, BTI712, BTI718, 

BTI718E

•  BTI800 product line: BTI805, BTI810, BTI821, BTI822

•  Other vendors

Service Types Supported

•  Carrier Ethernet: EPLINE, EVPLINE, EPLAN, EVPLAN, 

operator virtual circuits (OVCs), including the user-to-
network/network-to-network (UNI/NNI) interface, UNI/NNI 
link aggregation group (LAG), SLA/CFM, Y.1731,ERPS, MEF 
pseudowire

•  BTI Series dynamic optical layer, multiprotocol muxponders, 

multiprotocol transponders, ROADM

Base Server Hardware and Software 
Recommendation

• 

Intel 64 bit processor, 6 cores, 12 GB DDR3 RAM, 2x 1 TB 7k 
disks, hardware-based RAID, 2x 10/100/1000 Ethernet Red 
Hat Enterprise Linux 6.3 or later, CentOS equivalent

Note: proNX Service Manager, proNX Dashboard, and proNX 
Control software are distributed as a single package. See 
individual product details for proNX Service Manager and proNX 
SLA Portal system requirements.

Ordering Information
For ordering information, please consult the Juniper Networks 
price list or contact your local Juniper sales representative.

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks challenges the status quo with products, 
solutions and services that transform the economics of 
networking. Our team co-innovates with customers and partners 
to deliver automated, scalable and secure networks with agility, 
performance and value. Additional information can be found at 
Juniper Networks or connect with Juniper on Twitter and Facebook.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2016 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetproNX Management and Control Software1000578-001-EN   Apr 2016EXPLORE JUNIPERGet the App.