vSRX Virtual Firewall

Product Overview

The vSRX Virtual Firewall delivers 
a complete virtual firewall 
solution, including advanced 
security, robust networking, and 
automated virtual machine life 
cycle management capabilities for 
service providers and enterprises. 
vSRX empowers security 
professionals to deploy and 
scale firewall protection in highly 
dynamic environments.

To download a trial version of the 
vSRX, including advanced security 
services such as IPS, AppSecure, 
and UTM, visit www.juniper.net/
us/en/dm/free-vsrx-trial/.

Product Description 
Data centers increasingly rely on server virtualization to deliver services faster and 
more efficiently than ever before. The virtualized data center, however, introduces new 
challenges that require additional security considerations over and above those required to 
secure physical assets. 

In the virtualized data center, virtual machines (VM) can be highly dynamic, with frequent 
additions, moves, and changes. This can complicate the ability to attach security policies 
to VM instantiation and track security policies with VM movement to ensure continued 
regulatory compliance. In short, the dynamic and flexible nature of virtualization can easily 
lead to a loss of visibility and control that is taken for granted in a physical world.

Network and security professionals must perform a delicate balancing act, delivering the 
benefits of virtualization and cloud technologies without undermining the security of the 
organization. This challenge can only be met by a new breed of security solution that can 
keep pace with evolving threats while matching the agility and scalability of virtualized and 
cloud environments—without sacrificing reliability, visibility, and control.  

Juniper addresses these challenges head-on by extending the capabilities of the award-
winning Juniper Networks® SRX Series Services Gateways to the virtual world with the vSRX 
Virtual Firewall. Powered by Juniper Networks Junos® operating system, the vSRX delivers 
a complete and integrated virtual security solution, including L4-L7 advanced security 
services, robust networking, and automated life cycle management capabilities for service 
providers and enterprises alike. 

The vSRX’s automated provisioning capabilities allow network and security administrators 
to quickly and efficiently provision and scale firewall protection to meet the dynamic needs 
of virtualized and cloud environments. By combining the vSRX with the power of Junos 
Space Security Director, administrators can significantly improve policy configuration, 
management, and visibility into both physical and virtual assets from a common, 
centralized platform.

For service providers and organizations deploying service-oriented applications in software, 
the vSRX’s portfolio of virtualized network and security services supports a variety of 
Network Functions Virtualization (NFV) use cases. The vSRX also supports Juniper 
Networks Contrail, OpenContrail, and other third-party solutions, and can be integrated 
with other next-generation cloud orchestration tools such as OpenStack, either directly or 
through rich APIs.

1

Data SheetArchitecture and Key Components
Advanced Security Services

Implementing nonintegrated, legacy systems built around traditional 
firewalls and individual standalone appliances and software is no 
longer adequate to protect against today’s sophisticated attacks. 
Juniper’s advanced security suite enables users to deploy multiple 
technologies to meet the unique and evolving needs of modern 
organizations and the constantly changing threat landscape. Real-
time updates ensure that the technologies, policies, and other 
security measures are always current. 

Table 1: vSRX UTM Features and Benefits

The vSRX delivers a versatile, powerful virtualization-specific set of 
advanced security services, including unified threat management 
(UTM), intrusion detection and prevention (IDP), and application 
control and visibility services through AppSecure.

Unified Threat Management (UTM)

The vSRX includes comprehensive content security against 
malware, viruses, phishing attacks, intrusions, spam, and other 
threats with best-in-class antivirus, antispam, Web filtering, and 
content filtering features. 

Feature

Antivirus

Web filtering

Content filtering

Feature Description

Benefits 

•  Reputation-enhanced, cloud-based antivirus 

capabilities that detect and block spyware, adware, 
viruses, keyloggers, and other malware over POP3, 
HTTP, SMTP, and FTP protocols

•  Service provided in cooperation with Sophos Labs, a 

leader in anti-malware technology

•  Enhanced Web filtering, including extensive category 
options (90+ categories) and a real-time scorecard 
delivered in partnership with Websense, the leading 
Web security provider

•  Sophisticated protection from respected antivirus 
experts against malware attacks that can lead to 
costly data breaches and lost productivity

•  Protection against lost productivity and the impact 

of malicious URLs, as well as helping to maintain 
network bandwidth for business essential traffic

•  Effective inbound and outbound content filtering 
based on MIME type, file extension, and protocol 
commands

•  Protection against inadvertent or malicious file 

transmitting and malicious content on the network to 
minimize the risk of compromise or data leakage

Antispam

•  Multilayered spam protection, up-to-date phishing 

•  Protection against advanced persistent threats 

URL detection, standards-based S/MIME, Open 
PGP and TLS encryption, MIME type, and extension 
blockers provided in cooperation with Sophos Labs

perpetrated through social networking attacks and 
the latest phishing scams with sophisticated e-mail 
filtering and content blockers

Intrusion Prevention System (IPS)

IPS for vSRX controls access to IT networks to protect systems from attack by inspecting data and taking actions such as blocking 
attacks as they are developing—and before they succeed—or creating a series of rules in the firewall. IPS tightly integrates Juniper’s 
applications security features with the network infrastructure to further mitigate threats and protect against a wide range of attacks 
and vulnerabilities.

Table 2: vSRX IPS Features and Benefits

Feature

Feature Description

Benefits 

Stateful signature 
inspection

Protocol decodes

Signatures are applied only to relevant portions of the 
network traffic determined by the appropriate protocol 
context.

More than 65 protocol decodes are supported, along 
with more than 500 contexts to ensure proper usage of 
protocols.

Minimizes false positives and offers flexible signature 
development.

Accuracy of signatures is improved through precise 
context of protocols.

Signatures

There are more than 8,500 signatures for identifying 
anomalies, attacks, spyware, and applications.

Attacks are accurately identified and attempts to exploit 
known vulnerabilities are detected.

Traffic normalization

Reassembly, normalization, and protocol decoding are 
provided.

System overcomes attempts to bypass other IPS 
detections by using obfuscation methods.

Zero-day protection

Protocol anomaly detection and same day coverage for 
newly found vulnerabilities are provided.

Networks are already protected against any new exploits.

Recommended policy

Attack signatures are identified by Juniper’s Security 
Team as critical for the typical enterprise to protect 
against.

Active/active traffic 
monitoring

IPS monitoring includes active/active vSRX chassis 
clusters.

Packet capture

IIPS policy supports packet capture logging per rule.

Installation and maintenance are simplified while 
ensuring the highest network security.

Support for active/active IPS monitoring is included.

Users can conduct further analysis of surrounding traffic 
and determine further steps to protect target.

2

Data SheetvSRX Virtual FirewallApplication Visibility and Control with AppSecure

AppSecure is a next-generation application security suite for vSRX and SRX Series Services Gateways that delivers threat visibility, 
protection, enforcement, and control.

Whether needing to understand how many users are accessing cloud-based applications like Facebook every day, or needing to know 
what applications are using the most bandwidth, AppSecure delivers powerful visibility and ongoing application tracking. With open 
signatures, unique application sets can be monitored, measured, and controlled to tie closely to the organization’s business priorities. 

Table 3: AppSecure for vSRX Features and Benefits

Feature

AppTrack

AppFW

AppQoS

Description

Benefit

Analyzes application data and classifies it based on risk 
level, zones, source and destination addresses.

Tracks application usage to identify high-risk 
applications and analyze traffic patterns, improving 
network management and control.

Creates application control policies to allow or deny 
traffic based on dynamic application name or group 
names.

Enhances security policy creation and enforcement 
based on applications rather than traditional port and 
protocol analysis.

Meters and marks traffic based on the application 
security policies set by the administrator. 

Prioritizes traffic as well as limits and shapes bandwidth 
based on application information and context to 
improve overall performance.

Juniper Sky Advanced Threat Prevention

Juniper Sky Advanced Threat Prevention integrates with the vSRX to provide dynamic, automated protection against known malware 
and advanced zero-day threats, resulting in nearly instantaneous responses. 

Table 4: AppSecure for vSRX Features and Benefits

Feature

Benefits

Deep inspection and analysis

Extracts compromised files and sends them to the cloud for rapid identification of known threats or 
deep-level file analysis that looks for particularly evasive malware.

Instant identification to block attacks

Instantly identifies and communicates detected malware to SRX Series firewalls to block attacks.

Web-based portal with rich reporting and 
analytics tools

Provides a web-based interface for performing management tasks such as configuration and 
product updates. Also offers a rich set of reporting and analytics tools that provide visibility into 
threats and compromised hosts.

Quarantine of systems and hosts

Analytics capability lets administrators and security staff analyze and correlate data, identifying 
compromised systems and feeding the information to SRX Series firewalls to quarantine those 
systems.

Spotlight secure integration

Integrates with the Spotlight Secure Threat Intelligence service to cascade threat information to 
SRX Series firewalls for immediate action.

Command and control (C&C) data

Provides C&C data to the SRX Series firewalls, preventing compromised internal systems from 
communicating with these devices.

Isolates and quarantines malicious malware, preventing e-mail from being used as an attack vector. 
Machine learning algorithms analyze e-mail traffic, detect malicious attachments, and block files at 
the firewall.

Uses powerful open APIs for seamless integration with third-party vendors, providing multiple threat 
intelligence feeds and reducing the attack surface.

In order to optimize the throughput and latency of the combined 
router and firewall, Junos OS implements session-based 
forwarding, an innovation that combines the session state 
information of a traditional firewall and the next-hop forwarding 
of a classic router into a single operation. With Junos OS, a 
session that is permitted by the forwarding policy is added to the 
forwarding table along with a pointer to the next-hop route.

This efficient algorithm improves throughput and lowers latency 
for session traffic when compared with a classic router that 
performs multiple table lookups to verify session information 
and then find a next-hop route. Subsequent packets for the 
established session require a single table lookup in the session 
and forwarding table, and are forwarded to the egress interface.

3

E-mail analysis and remediation

Threat intelligence

Simple Configuration

The vSRX uses two basic features—zones and policies. The 
default configuration contains, at a minimum, a “trust” and 
an “untrust” zone. The trust zone is used for configuration 
and attaching the internal network to vSRX. The untrust zone 
is commonly used for untrusted networks. To streamline 
installation and make configuration simpler, a default policy is in 
place that allows traffic originating from the trust zone to flow to 
the untrust zone, but blocks traffic originating in the untrust zone 
from flowing to the trust zone. A traditional router forwards all 
traffic without regard for a firewall (session awareness) or policy 
(origination and destination of a session). Furthermore, because 
of the virtual nature of vSRX, customers can leverage snapshots, 
cloning, and related technologies to streamline maintenance and 
operational tasks.

Data SheetvSRX Virtual FirewallSecurity policies determine if a session can originate in one zone 
and be forwarded to another zone. The vSRX receives packets 
and keeps track of every session, every application, and every 
user. As a VM moves within a virtualized or cloud environment, it 
will still send packets to the vSRX for processing, continuously 
communicating in a secure mode.

Session Initial

Packet Processing

Security Policy Evaluation

and Next-Hop Lookup

Session and 

Forwarding Table

Table
Update

Ingress
Interface

Forwarding for
Permitted Tra(cid:11)c

Egress
Interface

Disallowed by
Policy: Dropped

Figure 1: vSRX session-based forwarding algorithm

High Availability (HA)

IPsec security associations, Network Address Translation (NAT) 
traffic, address book information, configuration changes, and 
more. As a result, not only is the session preserved during failover, 
but security is also kept intact. In an unstable network, vSRX also 
mitigates link flapping. 

Performance

Traditionally, customers have been required to make a trade-
off between scalability and performance. The vSRX solution is 
optimized to leverage multiple virtual CPUs to maximize packet 
processing and overall throughput in the virtual environment. 
Each vSRX VM also has multiple virtual network interface cards 
(vNICs), which can be connected to various virtual networks to 
simultaneously protect multiple network segments. Operating 
from within the virtual fabric, the vSRX provides the best of both 
worlds—strong security with the performance needed to support 
a virtualized or cloud-based environment.

The vSRX provides mission-critical reliability, supporting chassis 
clustering for both active/active as well as active/passive 
modes. The HA functionality provides full stateful failover for any 
connections being processed as well as for cluster members to 
span hypervisors. When vSRX VMs are configured in a cluster, the 
VM synchronizes connection/session state and flow information, 

Leveraging the scale-up model, the vSRX provides customers 
with the flexibility to upgrade their virtual security capacity 
by simply adding additional cores*, beyond the minimum two 
vCPUs, to the same instance without having to certify a new 
instance image. By using 17 vCPUs from a single socket, the vSRX 
can achieve up to 100 Gbps performance.

Table 5: vSRX Services Gateway Key Performance Metrics

Performance and Capacity1

vCPUs
Memory
Firewall throughput, large packet (1514B)
Firewall throughput, IMIX 
AES+GCM IPSec VPN throughput (1420B)
Application visibility and control2
IPS recommended signatures
TCP connections per second
Maximum concurrent sessions

2
4 GB
8 Gbps
2 Gbps
2.7 Gbps
2.9 Gbps
1.8 Gbps
50,000
512,000

VMware
VMXNET3

KVM

Virtio with OVS-DPDK

5
8 GB
20 Gbps
5.4 Gbps
7 Gbps
8.3 Gbps
5.2 Gbps
60,000
1,000,000

2
4 GB
17 Gbps 
4 Gbps
2.7 Gbps
2.9 Gbps
1.8 Gbps
50,000
512,000 

5
8 GB
20 Gbps 
5.4 Gbps
7 Gbps
8.3 Gbps
5.2 Gbps
60,000
1,000,000

1  Reference platform for performance: HP DL580 Gen 9 E7-8890 v3, 72 CPU * 2.493 Ghz; HT: Disabled with Intel 82599 NIC ixgbe version: 4.21; firmware version: 0x80000208; VMware 

version: 6.0; build: 3620759; KVM: Ubuntu 16.04 OpenVSwitch (OVS): 2.7.0. All performance numbers are “up to” and will depend on underlying hardware configuration (some server 
configurations may perform better). Performance, capacity and features listed are based on vSRX running Junos OS 15.1X49-D70 release and are measured under ideal testing conditions. 
Actual results may vary based on Junos OS releases and by deployments
2  Throughput numbers based on HTTP traffic with 44KB transaction size.

Table 6: vSRX System Requirements

Junos Space Security Director

CPU Cores
Memory
Disk Space
Network Drivers - 
VMware ESXi

2
4 GB
16 GB
VMXNET3, SR-IOV 
on Intel X710/XL710 
or X520/X540

 5
 8 GB
 16 GB
VMXNET3

Network Drivers KVM Virtio, SR-IOV on Intel 
X710/XL710 or X520/
X540 

Virtio, SR-IOV on Intel 
X710/XL710

Junos Space Security Director provides security policy 
management through an intuitive and centralized web-based 
interface that offers enforcement across emerging and traditional 
risk vectors. As an application on the Junos Space platform, 
Security Director provides extensive security scale, granular 
policy control, and policy breadth across the network. It helps 
administrators quickly manage all phases of security policy life 
cycle for stateful firewall, UTM, IPS, AppFW, VPN, and NAT.

Unified Management 

Leveraging the power of Junos Space Security Director, 
administrators can significantly improve policy configuration, 
management, and visibility into both physical and virtual assets 
from one common, centralized platform. 

*Number of cores should be power of 2 + 1 (i.e. 2n + 1)

4

Data SheetvSRX Virtual FirewallKey Features and Benefits

•  Secures multitenant private and public cloud environments 

by delivering a complete firewall with stateful packet 
processing and application-layer gateway features in a virtual 
machine format

•  Leverages the same, consistent, advanced security and 

networking features (IPsec VPN, NAT, QoS, and full routing 
capabilities) of the SRX Series Services Gateways

•  Defends against an increasingly sophisticated threat 

landscape by integrating powerful UTM, IPS, and application 
visibility and control capabilities for a comprehensive threat 
management framework

• 

Improves management flexibility with open RESTful APIs to 
support integration with third-party management and cloud 
orchestration tools

•  Expands visibility into and control over firewall security policy 

configuration and management across virtual and non-
virtual environments with Junos Space Security Director

•  Supports SDN and NFV via integration with Contrail, 

OpenContrail, and other third-party solutions

Available on Amazon Web Services 
Marketplace
The vSRX is available on the Amazon Web Services (AWS) 
Marketplace to provide advanced network and application 
security and secure IPsec VPN connectivity to AWS VPCs, private 
clouds, and on-premises resources. Using Junos Space Security 
Director, customers can maintain and manage consistent security 
policies on SRX Series Services Gateways spread across on-
premises and AWS VPCs. Customers using the vSRX on AWS can 
either bring their own vSRX license or pay via usage-based pricing 
(pay-as-you-go, hourly or annually).

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

Specifications
The following table highlights high-level specifications. Please see the product documentation for a complete list.

Table 7: vSRX Virtual Firewall Specifications

Protocols

• 

IPv4, IPv6, MPLS, 
ISO Connectionless 
Network Service 
(CLNS)

•  Static routes
•  RIPv2 +v1
•  OSPF/OSPFv3
•  BGP
• 
IS-IS
•  Multicast (Internet 

Group Management 
Protocol, PIM, 
Session Description 
Protocol)  

•  MPLS
•  VPLS

IP Address 
Management

•  Static
•  Dynamic Host 

Configuration Protocol 
(DHCP)
Internal DHCP server, 
DHCP relay

• 

•  Address Translation
•  Source NAT with Port 

Address Translation 
(PAT)

•  Static NAT
•  Destination NAT with 

PAT

•  Persistent NAT, NAT64
•  Encapsulations
•  Ethernet 
•  802.1q VLAN support

Hypervisors

•  VMware ESXi 5.5, 6.0; 

KVM/QEMU:
     - CentOS 7.1
     - Ubuntu 14.04, 16.04
     - RHEL 7.2
•  Hyper-V 2012, 2012R2, 

2016

Security

•  Firewall
•  Firewall, zones, screens, 

policies 

•  Stateful firewall, stateless 

filters

•  Network attack detection
•  Screens denial of service 

(DoS) and distributed 
DoS (DDoS) protection 
(anomaly-based)

•  Replay attack prevention; 

anti-replay

•  Unified access control 

(UAC)

•  TCP reassembly for 
fragmented packet 
protection

•  Brute force attack 

mitigation

•  SYN cookie protection
•  Zone-based IP spoofing
•  Malformed packet 

protection

•  VPN 
•  Tunnels (generic routing 

• 

encapsulation, IP-IP)
IPsec, Data Encryption 
Standard (DES) (56-bit), 
triple Data Encryption 
Standard (3DES) (168-
bit), Advanced Encryption 
Standard (AES) (128-bit+) 
encryption

•  Message Digest 5 (MD5), 
SHA-1, SHA-128, SHA-256 
authentication
IPv6

• 

SLA, Measurement, 
and Monitoring

•  Real-time performance 

monitoring (RPM)

•  Sessions, packets, and 

bandwidth usage
IP monitoring

• 
•  Logging
•  System logging
•  Traceroute
•  Extensive control 

and data plane 
structured and 
unstructured system log 
administration

•  Junos Space Security 

Director support

•  Juniper Networks 
Secure Analytics
•  Juniper Networks 
Advanced Insight 
Solutions support

•  External administrator 

database (RADIUS, 
LDAP, SecureID)

•  Auto-configuration
•  Configuration rollback
•  Rescue configuration 

with button

•  Commit confirm for 

changes

•  Auto-record for 

diagnostics

•  Software upgrades
•  J-Web
•  CLI

5

Data SheetvSRX Virtual FirewallOrdering Information
For more information about Juniper Networks vSRX Virtual 
Firewall, please visit www.juniper.net/us/en/products-services/
security/srx-series/vsrx or contact the nearest Juniper Networks 
sales representative. For a free vSRX trial, visit www.juniper.net/
us/en/dm/free-vsrx-trial/.

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks challenges the status quo with products, 
solutions and services that transform the economics of 
networking. Our team co-innovates with customers and partners 
to deliver automated, scalable and secure networks with agility, 
performance and value. Additional information can be found at 
Juniper Networks or connect with Juniper on Twitter and Facebook.

EXPLORE JUNIPER
Get the App.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2017 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetvSRX Virtual Firewall1000489-010-EN  June 2017