Junos Subscriber Aware

Product Overview

Getting the most value from 
residential and mobile services 
requires personalizing the 
experience for each subscriber. To 
deliver dynamic user experiences, 
service providers need to have 
knowledge of the customer, the 
application being used, and the 
state of the network in real time. 
With this knowledge, providers 
can deliver value-added services 
known as context-aware services. 
Juniper’s edge services portfolio, 
leveraging Junos Subscriber 
Aware, Junos Application Aware, 
and Junos Policy Control will 
allow residential and mobile 
service providers to customize 
and tailor services that distinguish 
them when compared to over-
the-top (OTT) applications.

Product Description 
To develop context awareness, service providers need to harness the enormous amount of 
information they have about subscribers, their location, their devices, and the applications 
they are using. With this awareness, providers have the ability to capitalize on their 
subscribers’ context by being able to create service offerings that fulfill behavioral needs. 

To do this successfully, service providers must acquire knowledge of subscriber behaviors, 
of what applications they use in different locations, through different devices, and under 
different circumstances. This challenge combines aspects of data collection, analysis, 
consolidation (according to different perspectives), and reporting, so that the service 
provider will not only understand but can gradually model the subscriber behaviors in 
specific offerings. In a word, this challenge is about subscriber-aware analytics.

Juniper Networks® Junos® Subscriber Aware identifies the subscriber’s association with a 
flow and classifies traffic based on subscriber privilege, permitting differentiated services 
based on subscriber policy by:

•  Dynamically redirecting new flows to subscriber identification engine and checking 

subscriber identity for a policy match

•  Configuring forwarding plane to forward, rate limit, mark, or drop packets associated 

with flow based on policy

•  Using Junos Application Aware to correlate application usage with subscriber identity

Architecture and Key Components
Junos Policy Control

Junos Policy Control enables policy enforcement and charging. When combined with Junos 
Application Aware and Junos Subscriber Aware, it provides dynamic policy and online 
charging capabilities. Junos Policy Control enables a Gx Diameter interface towards the 
Policy Charging and Rules Function (PCRF) following the Traffic Detection Function (TDF) 
model in Third-Generation Partnership Program (3GPP) LTE networks. 

Junos Application Aware

Junos Application Aware uses deep packet inspection (DPI) to identify and classify traffic 
on a per application basis, enabling competitive differentiation based on application-
specific services:

•  Uses DPI, a signature database, well-known addresses and ports to identify 

applications associated with a new flow, and then, through Junos Subscriber Aware, 
checks the application type for a policy match

•  Collects statistics on a per application basis in support of operational tasks

•  Can be deployed with Junos Subscriber Aware to correlate application usage with 

Your ideas. Connected.™

subscriber identity

1

Data SheetJuniper Networks MX Series 3D Universal  
Edge Routers

The MX Series portfolio of Ethernet services routers is the industry 
leader for carrier Ethernet capacity, density, and performance. 
Optimized for emerging Ethernet network architectures and 
services, the MX Series is purpose-built for the most demanding 
carrier and enterprise applications, and it leverages Juniper 
Networks Junos operating system to enable carriers and 
enterprises to seamlessly and cost-effectively deploy Ethernet 
and accelerate their next-generation network deployments. By 
combining a best-in-class hardware platform with the reliability 
and service flexibility of Junos OS, the MX Series delivers a 
combination of features and capabilities previously unattainable 
in carrier Ethernet deployments.

Multiservices Cards (MS-MPC)

MS-MPCs are next-generation, advanced service modules for the 
MX Series. They deliver the performance, services, and scalability 
that are critical to today’s advanced Ethernet services edge and 
broadband edge networks. MS-MPCs are full slot modules that 
supply hardware acceleration for an array of packet processing-
intensive services for the MX2020, MX2010, MX960, MX480, and 
MX240 3D Universal Edge Routers. 

In addition to supporting Junos Application Aware, Junos 
Subscriber Aware, and Junos Policy Control, these cards offer 
flexible support for stateful firewall, Network Address Translation 
(NAT), IPsec, anomaly detection, flow monitoring and accounting, 
and tunnel services. This wide array of services enables service 
providers and enterprises to secure their network infrastructure; 
collect rich statistics for billing, capacity planning, and security 
purposes; and create new services, all with a single module. 

Features and Benefits
Service Integration

Junos Subscriber Aware is integrated with a wide variety of Junos 
OS software protocols and applications, such as Junos Policy 
Control, Junos Application Aware, Junos Network Secure, Junos 
VPN Secure, Junos Address Aware, and Junos Traffic Vision, to 
name just a few. These Junos OS services can be layered to 
create an enhanced, customized service experience; for example, 
the tight coupling of Junos Subscriber Aware and Junos Address 
Aware enables granular per subscriber application identification, 
analysis, control, and reporting, as well as the invocation of 

policy-based network modification (bandwidth, QoS) based on 
the dynamically identified presence of an application/subscriber 
combination. Tight integration with MPLS provides all of the 
benefits of IP-layer awareness.

Integration with Juniper Networks SRC Series Session and 
Resource Control Modules provides call admission control 
(CAC) and traffic engineering based on true network awareness. 
It permits the dynamic modification of system and network 
resources in response to real-time changes in the application 
mix, ensuring the quality of video and voice applications—even 
as subscribers consume other services over the same physical 
connection. Additionally, policies restricting subscribers or 
applications to a maximum number of multicast groups or 
maximum bandwidth can be created to protect downstream 
facility bandwidth from oversubscription, while flow- and port-
based rate shaping policies can be enforced to deliver an assured 
traffic rate that is independent of line or service speed. 

Specifications and Approvals
For a complete list of supported software features, please 
consult the Junos OS software documentation at www.juniper.
net/techpubs/software/.

Juniper Networks Services and Support

Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling ser-
vices that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the net-
work to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, and 
availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/en/
products-services. 
Ordering Information

Model Number

Name

JSUB

JPC

JAPAW

MS-MPC-128G 

Junos Subscriber Aware

Junos Policy Control

Junos Application Aware

MS-MPC with 128 GB of memory (32 GB 
per NPU); occupies a single slot in MX2020, 
MX2010, MX960, MX480, and MX240 3D 
Universal Edge Routers

2

Data SheetJunos Subscriber AwareAbout Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2014 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetJunos Subscriber Aware1000499-001-EN  Oct 2014