Juniper Secure Analytics Data Node  

Product Overview

Juniper Secure Analytics Data 
Node, a member of the JSA 
Series Secure Analytics family 
of products, helps organizations 
increase their storage capacity 
and processing performance in 
a manner that is designed to 
be cost-effective, scalable, and 
flexible. Data Node allows users 
to scale their Juniper Secure 
Analytics deployments to store up 
to petabytes worth of information, 
improve query and search 
performance, and distribute data 
to optimize resource utilization.

Product Description 
Today’s attackers have become increasingly sophisticated and hide inside networks 
longer than in the past. As a result, analyzing historical data to determine normal, baseline 
behavior is critical in order to detect anomalies that could be signs of a breach. Security 
teams now need to conduct searches that go back months or even years, which means 
storing potentially hundreds of terabytes or even petabytes of information, a very expensive 
proposition. Fortunately, now organizations deploying Juniper Networks® JSA Series Secure 
Analytics Appliances have an option for increasing their storage capacity and processing 
performance that is designed to be cost-effective, scalable, and flexible—the Juniper 
Secure Analytics Data Node .

In JSA Series Secure Analytics portfolio deployments, data storage and searching is 
performed by an all-in-one appliance, event processors, flow processors, or event/flow 
processors. As more data is accumulated, additional storage capacity and processing 
power for queries often become needed, which normally requires the addition of more 
event and flow processors. Now there is a cost-effective alternative—the Juniper Secure 
Analytics Data Node. Data Nodes are highly scalable and can be attached directly to all-
in-one JSA Series Secure Analytics Appliances, event processors, flow processors, or event/
flow processors to add storage capacity and processing resources. And there is almost no 
limit to the number of Juniper Secure Analytics Data Nodes that can be added, making it 
possible to store and search up to petabytes of historical log, event, and flow data.

In addition to being scalable, Juniper Secure Analytics Data Nodes are also very flexible. 
They contain algorithms that automatically balance data among the Data Nodes when a 
new one is added, in a manner that helps optimize search performance and storage.

Data Nodes support high availability and clustering, and can be purchased in a hardware, 
software, or virtual format. Juniper Secure Analytics Data Nodes are also designed to 
be added on demand, without changes to system configurations, correlation rules, 
integrations, or user interfaces. In fact, they are plug-and-play, and can be added to an 
installation at any time. After the initial setup, Data Nodes seamlessly integrate with an 
existing deployment. 

Architecture and Key Components
Juniper Secure Analytics Data Nodes are designed to deliver:

•  Greater scalability and search performance

•  On demand expansion without significant system configuration or deployment 

changes

•  Data distribution designed for optimum resource utilization

Your ideas. Connected.™

1

Data SheetJSA

Security Intelligence

JSA Data Node

JSA Processor

JSA Data Node

JSA Data Node

JSA Data Node

QFlow collection
on passive tap

Servers, Routers
Switches

Firewall
IDS Laptop

Figure 1. JSA Series Secure Analytics Appliances security intelligence architecture

Greater Scalability and Search Performance

Juniper Secure Analytics Data Nodes can be added directly to all-
in-one JSA Series Secure Analytics Appliances, event processors, 
flow processors, and event/flow processors to add both lower 
cost storage and search processing capacity instead of adding 
event/flow processors. They receive and store events and flows, 
and can actively participate in query operations, providing 
additional processing power and increased search performance. 
Data Nodes also deliver real-time data interpretation, event 
correlation, and alerts. They are 100 percent dedicated to storage 
and search workloads, and are designed to transfer data at 
potentially millions of events per second without impacting 
normal operations.

Juniper Secure Analytics Data Nodes can be clustered around 
an event or flow processor, providing access to the space and 
processing capacity of each Data Node instance. Users are now 
capable of creating data storage deployments of potentially 
hundreds of terabytes to petabytes of data, while simultaneously 
adding the processing capacity to handle the queries on that 
data. Once in place, data distribution algorithms disperse all 
incoming data among the Data Node instances in a manner 
designed to be optimal for both query and storage.

Juniper Secure Analytics Data Nodes also provide flexibility, 
allowing storage to be added independent of requirements for 
events per second, or flows per minute, as is the case when 
adding event or flow processors. This can result in an overall 
system that has the appropriate storage capacity to meet the 
demands of day-to-day operations. It also allows more data to 
be maintained in an uncompressed and readily searchable form, 
which helps reduce search times and improves performance. 
Data Nodes add more I/O, CPU, and memory resources that can 

be used by the query infrastructure when executing a search, 
and these resources do not have competing demands placed on 
them as is the case with event and flow processors.

On-Demand Expansion

With Juniper Secure Analytics Data Nodes, addition to a JSA 
Series Secure Analytics Appliances deployment is simple and 
straightforward. It does not require any reconfiguration or 
changes to log sources, correlation rules, reports and integrations, 
or the user interface. And Data Nodes can keep being added as 
more capacity is required. Juniper Secure Analytics Data Nodes 
are offered as hardware, software, and virtual appliances.

Data Distribution Designed for Optimized Resource 
Utilization

Juniper Secure Analytics Data Nodes contain algorithms that 
take data from JSA Series Secure Analytics Appliances, event 
processors, and flow processors, and distribute it across the Data 
Nodes in a manner that helps optimize search performance and 
storage utilization. This is done using a scattering algorithm that 
distributes data based on the amount of available space and the 
disk space utilization rates of the cluster members. As new Data 
Nodes are added, data is automatically distributed to them. If 
a Data Node is removed or taken offline, the cluster will resume 
write operations to it when it is returned to the network.

High availability (HA) is also available for Juniper Secure 
Analytics Data Nodes, where each node is paired with a second 
node for failover in order to provide coverage for the data stored 
in the cluster. Data retention policies are applied to Data Nodes 
in the same way as they are applied to an event processor, flow 
processor, or event/flow processor. These policies are evaluated 
on a node-by-node basis and criteria such as free space will be 
based on the individual node and not on the cluster as a whole.

2

Data SheetJuniper Secure Analytics Data Node Features and Benefits

•  Scale deployments of JSA Series Secure Analytics 
Appliances to store up to petabytes of information

• 

Improve query and search performance

•  Distribute data to help optimize resource utilization

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

Ordering Information
To learn more about how JSA Series Secure Analytics Appliances 
and Juniper Secure Analytics Data Nodes can benefit your 
organization, please contact your Juniper Networks representative 
and visit www.juniper.net.

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2016 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetJuniper Secure Analytics Data Node 1000542-001-EN   May 2016