NorthStar Controller

Product Overview

Juniper Networks NorthStar 
Controller is a powerful and 
flexible traffic-engineering 
solution that enables granular 
visibility and control of IP/MPLS 
flows in large service provider and 
enterprise networks. It enables 
network operators to optimize 
their network infrastructure 
through proactive monitoring, 
planning, and explicit routing of 
large traffic loads dynamically 
based on the constraints 
specified. This allows operators to 
run their networks “hotter” while 
ensuring predictability, resiliency, 
and service-level guarantees. 
NorthStar Controller leverages 
IETF and Web protocol standards 
to ensure seamless integration 
into multivendor infrastructure 
and existing OSS/BSS systems. 
NorthStar Controller is industry’s 
first multi-layer controller that 
can dynamically interact with 
transport/optical controllers  
and reroute IP/MPLS  flows, 
adapting to real-time changes  
in multiple layers.

Product Description 
Service providers and large enterprises are under increasing pressure to rapidly deploy 
services while reducing overall CapEx and OpEx. It is no longer economically viable to 
tolerate the idle network infrastructure while passively anticipating the growth needs. 
Network managers need to move to an operational model where capacity upgrades 
are targeted, service-driven, and can adapt dynamically to ever-changing needs of their 
customers in real time.

Architecture and Key Components
Juniper Networks® NorthStar Controller is based on the Path Computation Element (PCE) 
architecture as defined in RFC 5440. It specifically leverages the “active stateful PCE” 
concept, which enables it to learn about the network and LSP path state via the Path 
Computation Element Protocol (PCEP) by communication with a client-side component 
present in the network devices themselves. The client is referred to as a Path Computation 
Client (PCC). 

The stateful PCE implementation in NorthStar Controller provides the following functions:

•  Offers real-time LSP path computation and provisioning

•  Provides global optimization of LSPs

•  Triggers LSP reroute when there is a need to reoptimize the network

•  Changes LSP bandwidth when there is an increase in bandwidth demand from  

an application

•  Modifies other LSP attributes on the router, such as ERO, setup priority, and hold priority

Additionally, NorthStar Controller is able to discover the topology of the network dynamically 
by peering via IGP (ISIS-TE, OSPF-TE) and listening to BGP-LS updates, while the discovery 
of optical network topology and optical virtual paths can be done via REST API calls using 
notion of Abstract topology as defined in IETF standards into the optical plane. Modification 
of existing paths or provisioning new paths can be achieved through PCEP standard and 
service mapping with NETCONF/YANG.

Source Packet Routing in Networks (SPRING) is an SDN-enabled method of routing where 
a centralized controller maintains network resources and directs traffic based on the 
application’s needs.  NorthStar Controller can also receive real-time performance monitoring 
data from the Junos Telemetry Interface or other similar solutions. By streaming data to a 
performance management system, network administrators can measure trends in link and 
node utilization, and troubleshoot issues such as network congestion in real time.

1

Data SheetVPN Service
Creation App

Design and
Planning App

Underlay Topology

Abstraction API

Data Center
Controller API

OSS/BSS

Third-Party App

Telemetry

App

YANG Abstract Models

REST / RESTCONF

Path Computation

Services

Topology

Visualization

Calendaring and

Scheduling

Real TIme
Monitoring

Topology Abstraction

Topology Discovery

Network Path Management

BGP-LS

IS-IS

OSPF

PCEP

NETCONF/

YANG

Analytics

Engine

l

m
r
o
f
t
a
P
 
r
a
t
S
h
t
r
o
N

Optical

Physical

Virtual

Figure 1. NorthStar architecture

Multivendor
Infrastructure

Multi Layer Packet Optical Integration
NorthStar Controller provides operators with multi-layer views of 
the network by interacting dynamically with transport controllers. 
Operators no longer need to manually configure Shared Risk 
Link Groups (SRLGs) on network devices to plan LSPs. Instead, 
NorthStar Controller communicates directly with transport 
controllers via REST/RESTCONF to learn the abstract topology as 
defined by IETF standards, making it a true multivendor solution.

NorthStar Controller helps operators design diverse-path 
creations (LSPs) without having to manually configure SRLG 
on network devices. NorthStar also gets real-time updates from 
transport controllers, enabling operators to perform optimization 
tasks such as multi-layer network design and planning as well as 
coordinated packet and optical node maintenance planning.

Figure 3. Multi-layer network view

2

Figure 2. NorthStar live network visualization

Operations
NorthStar Controller has a global view of the bandwidth demand 
in the network and performs external path computations after 
querying the traffic engineering database. It then modifies 
one or more LSP attributes and sends an update to the client 
(PCC). The client uses the parameters it receives from NorthStar 
Controller to resignal the LSP. This allows NorthStar Controller 
to provide a cooperative operation of distributed functionality 
used to address specific challenges of a shortest interdomain 
constrained path computation. It eliminates congestion scenarios 
in which traffic streams are inefficiently mapped onto available 
resources causing overutilization of some subsets of network 
resources, while other resources remain underutilized.

On the management side, NorthStar Controller has a set of 
standard web-based northbound interfaces that are RESTful/
Thrift-based APIs that enable ease of integration with existing 
OSS/BSS systems, third-party traffic modeling/planning scripts, 
or custom applications. This rich set of controls allows NorthStar 
Controller to interoperate with most incumbent programmable 
network management systems.

Data SheetNorthStar ControllerNORTHSTAR CONTROLLER

So(cid:157)ware Driven Policy

Analyze

Optimize

Virtualize

Topology Discovery

Path Computation

Path Installation

Routing

Junos CSPF

PCEP

Topology
Learning:

IS-IS, OSPF, 

BGP-LS

Install traŒc
engineered

LSP, one

session per
head node.

Netconﬁg/

Yang

May include:

BGP, DMI.
OpenFlow.
12RS and
other state

injection
methods.

Figure 4. Typical NorthStar Controller workflow

Key Features

•  Complex Interdomain path-computation and network 

optimization

Benefits
Key benefits of the NorthStar Controller application architecture 
include the following;

•  Sophisticated industry-leading path computation algorithms 

•  Provides specific ordering and synchronization of paths 

•  Ability to address multilayer optimization with multiple user-

signaled across routed network elements

defined constraints

• 

Intelligent interface between RSVP-TE networks and 
SPRING-enabled networks

•  Customizable display includes ability to rearrange fields and 

create node, link, LSP, or SRLG views

•  Typical applications and use cases include:

 - Explicit path routing with predictable and deterministic 

failover 

 - IP/MPLS global LSP path/bandwidth optimization

 - Flexible bandwidth calendaring

•  Allows global view of network state for monitoring, 

management, and proactive planning 

•  Features predictable, deterministic network state within 

margin of demand forecast error

•  Offers minimized distributed state, increased efficiency of 
existing network elements via offloading of control plane 
processing 

•  Can act as a foundation for additional centralized network 

infrastructure services—API for the network

•  Provides operational simplicity through enabling of an SDN 
control point across disparate elements across the network

 - Coordinated network optimization performed during 

maintenance windows helps maintain SLAs and supports 
automatic path restoration

Specifications
Standard protocol support:

 - Network defragmentation (bin packing) with traffic 

engineering (TE)++

 - Path diversity with partially/wholly disjoint head-ends and 

shared risk link groups (SRLG)

 - Programmable user-defined cost function

 - Network Visualization

 - IGP metric optimization

 - High controller availability and geographic redundancy 

(active/standby and active/active)

•  Path Control Element (RFC 4655)

•  Path Computation Element (PCE) Communication Protocol 

(PCEP) – (RFC 5440)

•  OSPF–TE (based on Juniper Networks Junos® operating 

system)

• 

ISIS-TE (based on Junos OS)

•  BGP-LS (based on Junos OS)

•  NETCONF (based on Junos OS)

•  Representational State Transfer (REST)

•  REST CONF (IETF draft)

•  Abstract Topology (IETF draft)

3

Data SheetNorthStar ControllerSupported Platforms

•  Juniper Network Routers: MX including vMX, PTX, M Series, 

and T Series.

•  3rd Party Routers supporting RFC 5440

System and operating environment recommendations:

•  Hardware: 64-bit dual x86 processor, minimum memory 

16 GB RAM (quad-core x86 with 32 GB or more of memory 
recommended)

•  Storage: 1Tb Serial Advanced Technology Attachment 

(SATA), Serial Attached SCSI (SAS), or solid-state drive 
(SSD); Volume storage: 2 disks with 2 TB SATA

•  Network: 1/10 GB interface card (2)

•  OS: Linux OS (CentOS 6.4, RHEL 6.4) with kernel-based 

virtual machine (KVM) support

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

Ordering Information
This product adheres to the Juniper Software Advantage pricing 
model—thus, please be advised of the following items that 
constitute an order:

As this is a virtual appliance/software product, you would 
not buy any hardware license from Juniper, but, instead, 
procure the hardware and additional required support for this 
hardware from an additional third-party vendor. For additional 
information on supported hypervisor(s) and VM requirements 
and recommended hardware configuration, please refer to the 
technical documentation for this product on our website  
(www.juniper.net) under the support section.

Juniper Networks products are sold directly as well as through 
Juniper partners and resellers. For more information on the 
Juniper Software Advantage business model, please visit  
http://www.juniper.net/us/en/products-services/sdn/NorthStar-
network-controller/.

For information on how to buy, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/how-to-buy

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks challenges the status quo with products, 
solutions and services that transform the economics of 
networking. Our team co-innovates with customers and partners 
to deliver automated, scalable and secure networks with agility, 
performance and value. Additional information can be found at 
Juniper Networks or connect with Juniper on Twitter and Facebook.

EXPLORE JUNIPER
Get the App.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2017 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Juniper, and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice. APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetNorthStar Controller1000494-005-EN  May 2017