Enabling Network Automation  
with Junos OS  

Product Overview 

The Junos operating system is a 
secure, open, and programmable 
network OS that enables network 
automation at scale. As the core 
component of Juniper’s routing, 
switching, and security portfolio, 
this cutting-edge network OS 
eliminates lengthy repetitive 
manual tasks associated with 
service deployment, improving 
overall operational efficiency 
and service agility. Junos OS also 
serves as an open programmatic 
platform, empowering service 
providers, enterprises, and 
developers to accelerate business 
innovation. 

 

Product Description
The market environment is transforming. Increasing dependence on cloud-native 
applications, the continued growth of geographically distributed data center and branch 
offices, and the emergence of Internet of Things (IoT) and 5G technologies have all 
placed significant demands on the networking environment, driving the need to simplify 
configuration, integration, and management. Service providers and enterprises require an 
operating system that automates network processes, streamlines service deployment, 
and analyzes real-time network data consistently across a diverse and growing number of 
network devices and geographical locations. 

Juniper Networks® Junos® operating system is the single network OS that powers Juniper’s 
broad portfolio of physical and virtual switching, routing, and security products. Built with 
open programmability and an intent-based automation framework as the core principles, 
Junos OS is the first modular network operating system that provides clear separation 
between control, management, and data planes. It is also the first network OS with open 
interfaces, versatile scripting support, and open-source frameworks, enabling service 
providers, enterprises, and developers to implement a DevOps approach that automates 
complex network operations to improve service agility.

Featuring a modular design, Junos OS includes Junos Node Slicing, a market-leading 
innovation for virtualization and optimization. By decoupling network software from the 
underlying network infrastructure while allowing control, management, and administration 
isolation, Junos Node Slicing enables the convergence of multiple concurrent network 
functions on a single chassis, maximizing network utilization while creating segmented 
services for customer satisfaction. 

Management Plane API

•  NETCONF, YANG
•  REST, gRPC
•  JSON/XML
•  Python/Ruby

Control Plane API and SDK

Platform velocity by 
separating platform 
code from Junos OS

Easy integration of analytics, 
telemetry, services

plane

•  Multiple Junos OS 

versions

•  Converged network 

functions

•  HA and scaling

•  Streaming 

telemetry sensor

Control
Plane API

Management

Plane API

API

Platform
daemon

Guest

VM/Container

(Juniper or
third party)

Linux

Native App
(Third party)

Customization 
with Linux Apps

Junos CP VM

Data Plane API

PFE

daemon

Linux

x86 CPU; PFE

KVM

Junos

Device Manager

Linux Native

App

(Juniper)

De facto 
industry-standard 
Linux kernel

Figure 1: Disaggregated Junos OS software

1

Data SheetArchitecture and Key Components
Junos OS consists of the following key automation components:

Features and Benefits
Revenue Growth

•  Automation Frameworks: Junos OS supports a wide range 
of open-source automation frameworks, including Puppet, 
Chef, Ansible, and Salt. This allows the seamless integration 
of Junos OS-powered network devices with network systems 
management infrastructure. Junos OS also supports PyEZ, 
a micro framework for Python developed by Juniper, which 
enables remote automated device management. 

•  Programmability: The Juniper Extension Toolkit (JET) API 
is a simple framework providing seamless programmability 
access to control, management, and data plane services 
via a rich set of APIs. Decoupled from Junos OS releases, 
the JET API is consistent across the entire Juniper portfolio 
regardless of Junos OS devices or an external server 
attached to a Junos OS device. 

•  Telemetry: Junos OS incorporates Junos Telemetry Interface 

(JTI), a highly scalable distributed network analytic engine 
designed to gather, aggregate, and stream accurate, real-
time network data and event states. JTI delivers the required 
enhanced visibility into the network to identify, isolate, and 
resolve potential issues based on real-time network statistics 
and events with minimal human interaction.

•  Open Data Models: Since its inception, Junos OS has been 
modeling the configuration and operational state internally 
using what was effectively the precursor of YANG. What 
Junos OS pioneered has effectively become the industry 
standard, where Network Configuration Protocol (NETCONF) 
is used as a transport mechanism, while YANG is used as a 
data-modeling language. In addition to supporting YANG 
to model configuration objects, Junos OS also supports the 
standardized YANG models and OpenConfig.

•  Junos Continuity: A major cause of downtime is the need to 

upgrade the network OS whenever new hardware, such as 
a line card, is installed in a device. These upgrades and the 
subsequent reboot always impact existing services. Junos 
Continuity provides a plug-and-play approach that ensures 
high network availability, preventing required device reboots 
by making the insertion of new line cards a non-service 
impacting event. 

•  Junos Node Slicing: Junos Node Slicing supports the 

convergence of multiple concurrent network functions on 
the same physical infrastructure. This gives service providers 
the ability to optimize their infrastructure, while offering 
differentiated services with enhanced operational and 
administrative isolation with a single chassis. By decoupling 
the network software from underlying infrastructure, Junos 
Node Slicing accelerates service deployment, reduces 
capital outlay, and improves operational efficiency.

The programmability and automation capabilities of Junos OS 
give service providers and enterprises the ability to automate 
business-critical services. This frees up valuable resources for 
innovation and optimal user experiences, which ultimately 
leads to greater customer satisfaction and brand loyalty. Junos 
Node Slicing optimizes the network infrastructure, enabling the 
convergence of multiple concurrent network functions on a single 
chassis, dramatically improving operational efficiency and top-
line growth opportunities. 

Cost Efficiencies

Junos OS improves the overall cost efficiency of network 
deployments. Junos Node Slicing enables the convergence of 
multiple concurrent network functions with a single chassis, 
maximizing the utilization of network nodes and improving 
CapEx efficiency. OpEx efficiency is achieved through 
automation, which replaces the extensive manual processes 
required by traditional network configuration, management, 
and operation, drastically simplifying network operations and 
virtually eliminating human errors. 

Agility

Business requirements are always evolving, reflecting constantly 
changing market dynamics. The programmability and open-
source automation frameworks supported by Junos OS 
give service providers and enterprises the ability to rapidly 
implement customized network services and deploy business-
critical applications. 

High Availability

Junos OS supports high availability (HA), enabling service 
providers and enterprises to avoid extended maintenance 
windows and prolonged service impacts. Junos Continuity 
eliminates the device reboot and network OS upgrade typically 
required during the installation of new hardware such as line 
cards. Junos Selective Update allows users to apply a patch 
(hotfix) on an installed version of Junos OS running on a Juniper 
device without any service disruption. 

Superior Performance

By supporting full symmetric multiprocessing (SMP), Junos OS 
enables the operating system to utilize all CPU cores on the 
Routing Engine. The result is a flexible, scalable, and powerful 
network infrastructure with the multicore capabilities of the 
networking devices. 

Security 

Junos OS incorporates many advanced security features that 
minimize network vulnerability. The Secure Boot feature certifies 
that Junos OS devices boot with only an authentic, untampered 
version of the Junos OS. It also ensures that devices boot an 
image that has not been tampered with. The built-in security 
features provide a secured and trusted chain of software 
development, safeguarding device integrity from factory to the 
branch site. 

2

Data SheetEnabling Network Automation with Junos OSeFeatures

i

c
v
Junos Node Slicing 
r
e
S

Converges multiple concurrent network functions on a single chassis to accelerate service 
deployment, reduce capital outlay, and improve operational efficiency.

Benefits

Seamless integration with a wide range of open-
source automation frameworks

Enables implementation of a DevOps approach to automate complex network operations 
and business-critical services.

Juniper Extension Toolkit (JET) API 

Junos Telemetry Interface (JTI) scalable 
distributed network analytic engine

Junos Continuity 

Offers a simple and programmable framework that provides open access to control, 
management, and data planes.

Streams accurate real-time network data, providing service assurance with enhanced 
visibility to identify, isolate, and resolve potential issues based on real-time network 
statistics and events with minimal human interaction.

Makes adding new hardware a plug-and-play, non-service impacting event, eliminating 
device reboots during network updates.

Specifications
Junos OS encompass a comprehensive set of automation 
features and support for open-source framework and standard 
protocols. Automation features and open-source support are 
available across Juniper’s product portfolio, including the Juniper 
Networks MX Series 3D Universal Edge Routers, PTX Series 
Packet Transport Routers, ACX Series Universal Access Routers, 
EX Series Ethernet Switches, QFX Series Switches, SRX Series 
Services Gateways, and T Series Core Routers. 

Junos Automation Scripts 

Junos Automation Scripts consist of:

•  Op-Scripts: Used to perform operational tasks on demand

•  Event-Scripts: Used to instruct Junos OS to perform actions 

in response to system events

•  Commit-Scripts: Used to instruct Junos OS to perform 

actions at or during commit time

•  SNMP Scripts: Provide the flexibility needed to support 

custom MIBs

Fast Programmatic Configuration (eDB) 

A fast, ultra-low-latency database for programmatic 
configuration, eDB resides on Junos OS to help with 
programmatic changes that are verified and monitored externally. 
SDN controllers and external applications alike can benefit from 
this fast channel to make control and data plane configuration 
changes on devices running Junos OS.

gRPC

General-purpose remote procedure call (gRPC) is an open-source, 
BSD-licensed HTTP/2 RPC framework developed and used by 
Google to handle remote procedure calls. gRPC enables the easy 
creation of high-performance, scalable APIs and microservices in 
many popular programming languages and platforms.

HTTP(s)

HTTP is a protocol used for communication, usually with Internet 
resources or any application with a Web browser client. HTTPs 
enables communication over an encrypted connection.

Juniper Extension Toolkit 

The Juniper Extension Toolkit (JET) is a next-generation 
solution that makes programming Junos OS simple, flexible, 
and extensible. JET is based on four fundamental components: 
JET APIs, Python, JavaScript Object Notation (JSON), and Fast 
Programmatic Configuration (or eDB).

JET APIs

JET offers a set of APIs that are consistent across any Junos 
OS supporting JET. JET APIs are language-agnostic and can be 
accessed by any programming language. Applications developed 
using JET APIs are also binary-compatible and can be executed 
across any platform running a Junos OS release supporting JET. 

Junos Snapshot Administrator (JSNAP)

Junos Snapshot Administrator captures and audits the runtime 
environment of network devices running Junos OS, automating 
network state verification by capturing and validating the status 
of a device. It is used to take pre- and post-snapshots of the 
environment, then compare them based on test cases provided. 
It is also used to audit a device’s runtime environment against 
predefined criteria. JSNAP is the Stylesheet Language Alternative 
Syntax (SLAX) version of the tool.

JSNAP using Python (JSNAPy)

JSNAPy is the Python version of the JSNAP tool described above. 

JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)

JSON is a popular data exchange format which has become a 
standard for simple and lightweight communication between 
devices and applications. To enrich native support in several 
programming languages, Junos OS operational commands can 
emit output in JSON format. Junos OS configuration input can 
also be provided in JSON format.

Junos Telemetry Interface

The Junos Telemetry Interface (JTI) is a high-frequency telemetry 
export function available on Juniper networking platforms to 
optimize network performance and fault management.

3

Data SheetEnabling Network Automation with Junos OSJunos User Interface Scripting Environment

Third-Party Platforms and Tools

The Junos User Interface Scripting Environment (JUISE) is a set 
of tools that allows the development and testing of SLAX scripts 
targeting devices running Junos OS. Users can develop scripts 
in their own desktop environment, performing the necessary 
code, test, and debug cycles in a more familiar setting. Tools for 
developers are available, including a debugger, a profiler, a call-
flow tracing mechanism, and trace files.

Jxmlease

Jxmlease is a Python module that converts XML to intelligent 
Python data structures, and vice versa.

NETCONF

NETCONF is a protocol defined by the IETF for installing, 
manipulating, and deleting network device configurations.

NETCONF Libraries

Ansible, SaltStack, Chef, and Puppet are IT provisioning tools 
that also bring the networking environment closer to the concept 
of continuous delivery. Junos OS automation supports all of 
these tools.

•  Ansible: A free software platform that combines multinode 

software deployment, ad hoc task execution, and 
configuration management; Ansible works in proxy mode 
without requiring an on-box agent.

•  SaltStack: A tool that allows users to remotely configure a 
number of devices simultaneously, with a single command; 
SaltStack works in proxy mode without requiring an on-
box agent.

•  Puppet: An open-source configuration management tool that 
runs UNIX-like systems or Microsoft Windows and includes its 
own declarative language to describe system configuration.

NETCONF libraries support XML-based data encoding, SSH 
transport, and RPC support using different languages including 
Python, Ruby, PHP, Java, Go, and Perl.

•  Chef: An IT provisioning tool that integrates with cloud-

based platforms to automate the process of provisioning, 
configuring, and maintaining new servers.

OpenConfig

XML/XSD

OpenConfig is an informal working group of network operators that 
is focused on compiling a consistent set of vendor-neutral data 
models (written in YANG) based on actual operational needs from 
use cases and requirements from multiple network operators.

PyEZ

Junos PyEZ is a Python “micro-framework” used to remotely 
manage or automate a device running Junos OS. 

Python

With native support for Python in Junos OS, users can develop 
and execute operational, event, and configuration commit scripts 
using Python. 

Representational State Transfer (REST) API

The Junos OS REST API is an interface that enables users to 
securely connect to Junos OS devices and execute remote 
procedure calls. Using the REST API Explorer GUI, users can 
conveniently experiment with any REST API and explore a variety of 
formatting and display options, including JavaScript Object Notation 
(JSON). REST uses HTTP as its application-layer protocol.

RubyEZ

The RubyEZ framework allows users to automate management 
of Junos OS devices without requiring specific Junos XML 
knowledge.

Stylesheet Language Alternative Syntax

SLAX is a language for writing Junos OS Op Scripts, Event Scripts, 
Commit Scripts, and SNMP Scripts.

Extensible Markup Language (XML) defines a set of rules for 
encoding documents in a format that can be read by both humans 
and machines, while XML Schema Definition (XSD) is a World-
Wide Web Consortium (W3C) recommendation that specifies how 
to formally describe elements in an XML document.

YANG

YANG is a standards-based, extensible, hierarchical data 
modeling language that is used to model the configuration and 
state data used by NETCONF operations, remote procedure calls 
(RPCs), and server event notifications.

Zero Touch Provisioning

Zero Touch Provisioning (ZTP) allows customers to automatically 
provision new Junos OS devices in the network without any 
manual intervention. Once a device is physically connected to 
the network with default factory configuration, it attempts to 
upgrade the Junos OS software automatically and also auto-
install configuration files from the network.

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

4

Data SheetEnabling Network Automation with Junos OSAbout Juniper Networks

Juniper Networks challenges the status quo with products, 
solutions and services that transform the economics of 
networking. Our team co-innovates with customers and partners 
to deliver automated, scalable and secure networks with agility, 
performance and value. Additional information can be found at 
Juniper Networks or connect with Juniper on Twitter and Facebook.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2017 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Juniper, and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice. APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetEnabling Network Automation with Junos OS1000616-001-EN   May 2017EXPLORE JUNIPERGet the App.