cSRX Container Firewall

Product Overview

The cSRX container firewall 
delivers a complete virtual firewall 
solution, including advanced 
security and automated life 
cycle and policy management 
capabilities for service providers 
and enterprises. The cSRX 
empowers security professionals 
to deploy and scale firewall 
protection in highly dynamic 
environments.

Product Description 
To achieve business agility, customers increasingly leverage an SDN framework to 
instantiate virtual private clouds on demand. Automated deployment of networks and 
workloads requires that network functions be equally agile. Whether customers build 
their virtual clouds in house (private) or in hosted environments (public), one of the key 
requirements is a consistent security posture. 

Deploying virtualized network functions (VNFs) helps achieve this consistent security posture. 
However, most available VNFs—especially when it comes to security services—aren’t suitable 
for rapid deployments due to their size and boot times. A VNF could take up to three minutes 
to boot, and it requires static reservation of resources like vCPU and vRAM. While this might 
be acceptable for current environments, customers looking to increase the breadth of their 
infrastructure security coverage prefer a smaller, faster, more lightweight security VNF. 

Service providers offering differentiated security services to huge subscriber bases are 
looking for significantly higher density than what is offered by virtual machine (VM)-based 
firewalls. By adopting a micro-services approach, paying only for the services they use and 
reducing the need to deploy high-density security solutions in the infrastructure, service 
providers can drive down both CapEx and OpEx.

Juniper addresses these requirements by offering a pure-play “security services VNF” in a 
containerized version of the Juniper Networks® SRX Series Services Gateways*. The cSRX 
container firewall allows both enterprises and service providers to significantly increase 
agility and the breadth of their advanced security service deployments.

By leveraging Docker as a container management solution, the cSRX provides easy, flexible, 
and highly scalable deployment options that cover a variety of customer use cases. The 
cSRX also supports SDN via Juniper Networks Contrail, OpenContrail, and other third-party 
solutions, and it can be integrated with other next-generation cloud orchestration tools 
such as OpenStack, either directly or through rich APIs.

Architecture and Key Components
Advanced Security Services

Implementing nonintegrated legacy systems built around traditional firewalls and 
individual standalone appliances and software is no longer enough to protect against 
today’s sophisticated attacks. Juniper’s advanced security suite enables users to deploy 
multiple technologies to meet the unique and evolving needs of modern organizations and 
the constantly changing threat landscape. Real-time updates ensure that the technologies, 
policies, and other security measures are always current. 

The cSRX container firewall delivers a versatile, powerful, and virtualization-specific set of 
advanced security services, including unified threat management (UTM), intrusion detection 
and prevention (IDP), and application control and visibility services through AppSecure.

* This product is currently in Beta.  For information, please contact your local Juniper sales representative or partner.

1

Data SheetSimple Configuration
The cSRX container firewall supports only “bump-in-the-wire” 
L2 deployment using two basic features: zones and policies. 
The default configuration contains, at a minimum, a “trust” and 
an “untrust” zone. The trust zone is used for configuration and 
attaching the internal network to the cSRX, while the untrust 
zone is commonly used for untrusted networks. To streamline 
installation and make configuration easier, a default policy is in 
place that allows traffic originating from the trust zone to flow to 
the untrust zone but blocks traffic originating in the untrust zone 
from flowing to the trust zone. Security policies determine if a 
session can originate in one zone and be forwarded to another. 
The cSRX receives packets and keeps track of every session, 
application, and user; as workloads move within a virtualized or 
cloud environment, they will still send packets to the cSRX for 
processing, continuously communicating in a secure mode.

Junos Space Security Director
Juniper Networks Junos® Space Security Director provides security 
policy management for the cSRX container firewall through 
an intuitive and centralized web-based interface that offers 
enforcement across emerging and traditional risk vectors. As 
an application on the Junos Space platform, Security Director 
provides extensive security scale, granular policy control, and 
policy breadth across the network. It also helps administrators 
quickly manage all phases of the security policy life cycle.

Features and Benefits
The cSRX container firewall comes with the following features 
and associated benefits:

•  Offers a small footprint and delivers highly agile advanced 

security services in a container form factor

•  Leverages the same consistent, advanced security features 

as the SRX Series Services Gateways

•  Defends against an increasingly sophisticated threat 

landscape by integrating powerful UTM, IPS, and 
application visibility and control capabilities for a 
comprehensive threat management framework

• 

Improves management flexibility with open RESTful APIs to 
support integration with third-party management and cloud 
orchestration tools

•  Expands visibility into and control over firewall security policy 

configuration and management across virtual and non-
virtual environments with Junos Space Security Director

•  Supports SDN and Network Functions Virtualization (NFV) 
via integration with Contrail, OpenContrail, and other third-
party solutions

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

Ordering Information
For more information about Juniper Networks cSRX container 
firewall, please visit www.juniper.net/us/en/products-services/
security/srx-series/csrx or contact the nearest Juniper Networks 
sales representative. 

 About Juniper Networks

Juniper Networks challenges the status quo with products, 
solutions and services that transform the economics of 
networking. Our team co-innovates with customers and partners 
to deliver automated, scalable and secure networks with agility, 
performance and value. Additional information can be found at 
Juniper Networks or connect with Juniper on Twitter and Facebook.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2016 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetcSRX Container Firewall1000588-003-EN   Sept 2016EXPLORE JUNIPERGet the App.