Junos Space

Product Overview

Junos Space is a comprehensive 
Network Management Solution 
that simplifies and automates 
management of Juniper’s 
switching, routing, and security 
devices. Junos Space consists of 
a network management platform 
for deep element and FCAPS 
management, plug-and-play 
management applications for 
reducing costs and provisioning 
new services quickly, and a 
programmable SDK for network 
customization.  With each of 
these components working 
cohesively, Junos Space offers 
a unified network management 
and orchestration solution to help 
you more efficiently manage the 
New Network.

Your ideas. Connected.™

Network Management Challenges for Service Providers  
and Enterprises
For service providers, the network is the money-maker. Service providers look to their 
network to create innovative services that solve business problems and demonstrate the 
added value they can bring to their customers. These services must always be available 
to ensure end- subscriber satisfaction, and new services need to be offered frequently as 
demands and technology change in order to obtain additional revenue streams.

For enterprises, the network is both a strategic and critical corporate asset, where costs 
have to be controlled. Explosive demand for smart devices, social media applications, and 
mobility-based services has placed unprecedented pressure on network operators who 
must provide a compelling experience to increasingly demanding, tech savvy consumers. 
The unrelenting expectations of highly secure and always-on connectivity and service, 
coupled with the growing use of cloud environments, make the network increasingly 
complex to manage and secure. 

These networks can be extremely difficult to manage. Networks have been device centric, 
and each new box brought a different interface and exponential complexity. This made 
networks hard to manage, closed to innovation, and expensive to operate. With more users 
and devices than ever before, managing, securing, and delivering new services across the 
network has meant additional costs and complexities.

Juniper addresses these network challenges with Junos Space to help service providers and 
enterprise customers maximize their network value and scale solutions, all while reducing 
complexity. Junos Space is a critical component of Juniper’s SDN strategy as it provides a 
centralized management plane for a single source of truth and a common management 
platform for managing and creating applications to meet your specific needs.

Centralized Network Management 
With Junos Space, you can simplify and automate the network, improve network agility, 
and deliver new services quickly  —all from a single console. Junos Space is composed of the 
following three software elements:

• 

 Junos Space Network Management Platform – Provides comprehensive FCAPS 
and element management of Juniper devices which improves operator efficiencies, 
providing a programmable interface and exposable APIs that enable the development 
and integration of 3rd party applications

•  Junos Space Management Applications – Plug-n-play, domain-specific applications 

to help you provision new services and optimize workflow tasks across thousands of 
Juniper devices 

• 

 Junos Space SDK (software development kit) – A programmable network solution 
that enables you to leverage the connections and intelligence imbedded in the network 
to create customized management solutions for your specific needs

1

Data SheetKey Component of Juniper’s SDN Strategy
Junos Space is a critical component of our SDN strategy as it 
provides a centralized management plane for a single point-of-
contact into the network and a common management platform 
for managing and creating applications to meet your specific 
needs.  The Junos Space Network Management Platform and 
the Junos Space Management Applications are all accessible 
through a northbound Representational State Transfer (REST)-
based Application Programming Interface (API).   These open 
APIs provide core building blocks for new innovation, with no 
need to build solutions from scratch.  

They also provide access to all Junos-based devices, serving 
as a single entry point that abstracts your network to enable 
you to manage, monitor, control and gather insight across your 
entire network infrastructure.  This enables operators to use 
their existing Operations/Business Support Systems (OSS/BSS) 
deployments and tap into the rich functionality of both the Junos 
Space Network Management Platform and the Management 
Applications.    The programmability, centralization, and 
customization aspects of Junos Space are important as network 
providers begin to embrace SDN architectures in their networks.

Automate and Simplify the Network  
with the Junos Space Network 
Management Platform
Junos Space Network Management Platform provides 
comprehensive element management of Juniper devices. No 
other vendor can manage Juniper devices to the depth and extent 
of Junos Space. With the Junos Space Network Management 
Platform, you get broad FCAPS capability, same day support for 
new devices and Junos releases, a task-specific user interface, 
and northbound APIs to easily integrate into existing NMS or 
OSS/BSS deployments. 

Junos Space Network Management Platform uses multilayered 
network abstractions, operator-centric automation schemes, and 
the simplicity of a point-and-click user interface to help network 
operators in enterprise and service provider organizations scale 
their operations, reduce operational complexity, and enable new 
applications and services to be brought to market quickly.

With this platform, you get a unified approach for managing 
Juniper infrastructure and designing/deploying new services. 
Junos Space offers a centralized network management and 
orchestration solution to manage both network devices and 
services through a single-pane of glass for real-time visibility. This 
means one sign on, one user interface, one location to manage 
routers, switches, and security devices.

Additionally, you scale your network easily with zero-day support 
of new devices and operating systems with a schema driven 
data base, without having to upgrade the platform. With Junos 
Space, you get a highly scalable platform with one cluster (6 
nodes running in a fabric configuration) being able to manage the 
complete network with up to 25,000 devices.

The Junos Space platform is architected from the ground up and 
is based on a service-oriented architecture (SOA). It uses industry-
standard technologies to provide an enhanced user experience, 
massive application transparent scale, high availability, and feature 
velocity. The Junos Space platform provides a single abstracted 
network model across Juniper’s networking infrastructure, 
and it extends this to third parties through standards-based 
Representational State Transfer (RESTful) APIs. The use of a 
standards-based Device Management Interface (DMI), an XML 
schema-driven device access API, zero day support for new 
devices, and a plug-and-play application environment allows in-
service device and software upgrades. Users can access the Junos 
Space platform functionality using a simple Web 2.0 graphical 
user interface (GUI), which uses persona-based workflows and 
progressive disclosure to enable operator-centric and scope-
specific visibility and control.  

Figure 1: Job Management.

Junos Space Environment
Scalable and Resilient Runtime Environment 

Junos Space is implemented as a scalable fabric of physical or 
virtual appliances that work collaboratively to help optimize 
network resiliency, availability, and resource utilization. You can 
expand or contract the fabric by simply adding or deleting nodes; 
the system will automatically expand. Each node is fully utilized 
and the nodes work together to provide automated resource 
management and a base for higher level applications.

The Junos Space Network Management Platform is designed 
for carrier-grade reliability and availability. The Space fabric 
provides 1:1 data base redundancy and transparent switchover of 
UI sessions in case of node failure. And Junos Space is built to be 
massively scalable. Multiple appliances can be clustered together 
to form a single management fabric.

The Junos Space Network Management Platform is multi-tenant 
and enables hot-pluggable application deployment and upgrades. 
Juniper or third-party applications can be added by downloading 
them onto the platform, with the system automatically deploying 
the applications throughout the fabric. One of the unique features 
of the platform is its use of DMI, a schema-driven, programmatic 
interface to allow for easy management of network devices. DMI 
makes it possible to import the published schema version and 
map out all configuration and operational commands for a given 
device, enabling zero day support and future proofing without 
having to upgrade or patch the platform.

2

Data SheetJunos SpaceEnhanced User Experience

Junos Space provides a simple to use Web 2.0 GUI that can be 
accessed through standard Web browsers. The GUI is designed 
to simplify the way you interact with the system. It is based on a 
task-oriented paradigm and uses persona-based workflows to 
help you do your administrative tasks quickly and efficiently.  

Embedded Network Infrastructure Automation

The Junos Space Network Management Platform provides 
centralized, unified, out-of-the-box management for Juniper’s 
networking infrastructure. It also provides full element 
management functionality for total management of Juniper’s 
routing, switching, and security devices. Network element 
management functions include:

•  Device discovery: Provides a wizard-based interface for near 

real-time device discovery to enable operators to quickly 
bring network devices under management.

•  Topology: Allows operators to have a broad, topological 

view of the network including endpoint devices, link 
information, bottlenecks and failures, and discovered 
relationships between network elements such as devices and 
interconnections for devices under management.

• 

Inventory management: Enables visualization storage and 
management of hardware inventory, including chassis-
related information such as serial numbers, software version, 
location, and physical subcomponent information such as 
slots, cards, and ports for all managed devices. Included is 
automated synchronization between hardware inventory, 
interface information, and configuration of the device.

•  Software image management: Provides centralized, 

network-wide deployment of software images and patches 
to enable customers to efficiently manage the deployment 
of Juniper software. Includes the ability to import software 
images from local or networked file system, flexibly schedule 
software deployments, stage or deploy software image 
to one or multiple devices in a single workflow, image 
verification for accuracy, and use of golden image.

•  Configuration templates: Enables creation of cookie-
cutter, model-based configuration templates to help 
optimize and scale device configurations. Includes 
schema-driven GUI for fully customizable configurations, 
and an audit trail to track configuration changes. CLI-based 
template options are also available.

•  Configuration file management: Enables simplified 
configuration management that includes import, edit 
compare, and backup/restore for individual devices or device 
groups. Provides instant visibility into network configuration 
and performance correlation, automated configuration 
deployment scheduling, validation to minimize syntax errors, 
and entry forms for easy creation of template definitions and 
bulk modification of configurations.

Figure 2: Configuration Templates

•  Configuration editor: Using a schema-driven GUI, operators 

can view and edit all attributes of a device’s configuration, 
including being able to work with portions of the 
configuration.

Figure 3: Audit Log 

•  Junos OS script management: Provides centralized, total 
management of Junos OS scripts, including import/export, 
view/edit, version control, deploy/delete, verify execution, 
and more to allow operators to leverage configuration 
and diagnostic automation tools provided by the Juniper 
Networks Junos operating system.

•  Fault and Performance management: Includes cross-

vendor enterprise-grade event and performance 
management, Powered by OpenNMS, for insight and visibility 
across all network devices.

These platform functions enable users to control any part of their 
Juniper network when used in conjunction with multiple add-on 
applications.

Optimize Network Domain Management 
with Junos Space Management 
Applications
Extending the breadth of the solution are multiple Junos Space 
Management Applications that optimize network management 
for various domains. These applications, with their easy-to-use 
interface, enable you to provision new services across thousands 
of devices and optimize workflow tasks for specific use cases 

3

Data SheetJunos Spacewithin the core, edge, data center, campus, security, mobile, and 
more. The following Junos Space Management Application can 
easily be added and managed from the Junos Space Network 
Management Platform:

•  Monitor and plan ahead with pervasive visibility into the 

network

•  Top interfaces with enhanced web 2.0 user experience with 

adoptive content and smart navigation 

Junos Space Services Activation Director

•  Extensive PDF, CSV, HTML reporting to view inventory, usage, 

Junos Space Services Activation Director ensures error-free 
service provisioning and monitoring of legacy Carrier-Ethernet 
and MPLS using a simple interface to design, validate and 
manage these services. Service providers and enterprises must 
be able to rapidly provision and offer new MPLS and Carrier 
Ethernet services across their networks. In order to reduce 
operational costs and enable quick service rollouts, these 
network operators need an intelligent provisioning application 
that facilitates the design, deployment and management 
of services. Junos Space Services Activation Director is a 
collection of applications that facilitates automated design and 
provisioning of L2VPN and L3VPN services, configuration of QoS 
profiles, validation and monitoring of service performance and 
management of synchronization.  

Key features and benefits include:

•  Removal of all possible manual configuration errors

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

 One centralized location for all L2VPN and L3VPN services 

 Reduced mean time to recovery (MTTR) when 
troubleshooting customer connectivity issues

 Configuration management, health monitoring, discovery, 
and GUI visualization of synchronization devices

 Facilitates configuration of Quality of Service (QoS) features 
to provide improved service to certain types of network traffic

 Checking end-to-end path connectivity of control plane and 
the data plane in order to guarantee SLAs

Junos Space Network Director

Junos Space Network Director is a full lifecycle management tool 
for unified vision and control of the network wired and wireless 
infrastructure, users and services.  Encompassing both wired and 
wireless for enterprise customers in both the campus and data 
center domains, Junos Space Network Director provides a single 
pane of glass management solution enabling cost-effective 
delivery of high performance and high availability network services. 

Key features and benefits include:

•  Operation simplicity help you shift from maintaining to 

innovating 

•  Less human error with guided, wizard based tasks 

•  Fast and simple deployment with profile based approach by 

logical, location or device grouping

•  Optimize network performance with extensive performance 

and correlated fault management 

capacity, alarms, top talkers.

Junos Space Service Now

Junos Space Service Now is a remote, automated trouble-
shooting client that enables Juniper to quickly identify a problem 
in the customer’s network to achieve a 40% increase in Day 1 
issue resolution. Used by both enterprises and service providers, 
Junos Space Service Now creates an incident detection system 
by performing automated diagnostic data collection on first 
occurrence of an issue. The information collected from devices, 
via the Junos Space Network Management Platform, is presented 
in an easily accessible format that automates and speeds 
troubleshooting and ultimately the resolution of problems.

Junos Space Service Insight

Junos Space Service Insight helps you reduce network downtime 
by delivering proactive bug notifications specific to your network 
configuration, and thorough automated end-of-life/support 
analysis where you can do complete EOL auditing across 100’s 
of devices in seconds. Used by both enterprises and service 
providers, Junos Space Service Insight works seamlessly with 
Junos Space Service Now to deliver targeted bug notifications, 
identify which network devices could potentially be impacted, 
and perform impact analyses for EOL/EOS notifications.

Key features and benefits include:

• 

• 

 Proactive bug notification for reduced risk of network device 
issues to ensure higher network uptime

 End of life impact analysis to reduce the risk of running 
unsupported hardware or software in networks

•  Ability to automate scanning for impact of bug notifications, 
which saves time in risk assessment and exposure to known 
issues, improves uptime, and reduces the risk of downtime 
due to known issues

• 

• 

• 

 User and systems notifications of new bugs and end of life 
that helps you configure notification policy to alert users or 
other tools/systems about new proactive bug notifications or 
end of life notifications received

 Automates key operational tasks of delivering incident 
prevention, detection, and diagnostics

 Employs the automation capabilities embedded in the 
Juniper Networks Junos operating system to deliver an early 
warning system that detects errors in devices and collects 
required diagnostic data for analysis and troubleshooting

• 

 Provides a uniform solution that can scale to all devices 
running Junos OS

4

Data SheetJunos Space• 

• 

• 

• 

 Presents information collected in an easily accessible format 
that automates and speeds troubleshooting and ultimately 
the resolution of problems

 Simplifies operational processes and increases operational 
efficiency with the ability to open cases with Juniper 
Networks

 Technical Assistance Center (JTAC) from the Junos Space 
Service Now console, and by sending the necessary 
information to JTAC to quickly and effectively identify and 
resolve problems

 Provides a centralized platform that stores and tracks 
detected incidents, maintains the troubleshooting 
information collected, and tracks the status of associated 
cases escalated to JTAC

• 

 Saves time by automating time-consuming manual tasks 
such as asset inventory details

Junos Space Security Director

Junos Space Security Director helps organizations improve the 
reach, ease, and accuracy of security policy administration with 
a scalable, GUI based management application. Used by both 
enterprises and service providers, it helps administrators more 
quickly and intuitively manage all phases of security policy 
lifecycle, from policy creation to remediation, through one 
centralized web-based interface. 

Key features and benefits include:

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

 Fast and easy enforcement of security state across the end-
to-end network

 Quick, easy translation of business policies into network 
configuration with minimal manual intervention

 Rapid deployment of thousands of devices with minimal 
user intervention and truck rolls

 Setup of thousands of IPsec VPNs in minutes rather than 
days

 Easy point-and-click interface to enable security architects 
to design, validate, and deploy security policies consistently 
across a distributed network

 Patent pending technology called security domains to allow 
security restrictions to be applied to distributed network 
resources, reducing configuration errors

 Policy abstraction to enable users to simply drag and drop a 
policy onto security devices

 Policy locking that reduces configuration errors by preventing 
simultaneous edits

 Policy versioning for configuration snapshots and rollback 
capabilities

 Topology view of the network for fully automated 
visualization and configuration of security devices

Building Network Applications with Junos  
Space SDK

For companies that want to extract value from their network 
and deliver on solutions that truly work for their business, Junos 
Space is the platform of choice. You can create and deploy 
custom management applications using our programmable 
interface. Junos Space improves network agility by providing a 
SDK toolkit and APIs both at the platform and application level 
for a complete customized solution so you can meet the specific 
needs of your business or internal procedures. 

The Junos Space SDK provides a complete rapid application 
development framework that includes a common infrastructure, 
a software development kit (SDK) with prebuilt core services and 
widgets to allow easy user interface prototyping, and standards 
based APIs for third-party application integration. Using the 
Juniper Networks Junos Space SDK, users have the option of 
developing different classes of applications such as mashups, 
customized business process workflows, or native applications.

The Junos Space Network Management Platform and its Open 
APIs provide RESTful access to all Junos-based devices, serving 
as a single entry point that abstracts your network to enable you 
to manage, monitor, control and gather insight across your entire 
network infrastructure.

And, by using Junos Space SDK, you can utilize your investment in 
existing OSS/BSS solutions to manage, monitor and control the 
network. Plus, you’ll be able to access network data streams and 
insight to proactively manage, monitor and simplify management 
of your complex network. 

Learn Junos Space with Junosphere
The industry’s only virtual networking environment, Junosphere 
enables network operators to perform network testing, design 
and training exercises in a risk-free virtual environment that is 
90% less expensive than traditional physical labs. By utilizing 
Junosphere, you can text your Junos Space instance before 
actually deploying into production. Create and run exact replicas 
of your network within a cloud based Junos environment!
Features and Benefits
Junos Space Benefits

With the Junos Space customers benefit from: 

•  Network-wide visibility and control

•  Quick scaling of operations and services

•  Rapid deployment of switching, routing, and security 

infrastructure

•  Total management of Juniper devices

•  Cross-Vendor event and performance management

•  Network intelligence for extending core platform capabilities

•  Fast problem identification and resolution

•  SDK and APIs for customization and integration

•  Reduced OpEx

5

Data SheetJunos SpaceFeatures and Benefits
Features

Web 2.0 GUI

Figure 4: Configuration Editor

Feature Description

Benefits

•  Task-oriented GUI to enable users to complete 
tasks in congruent navigation steps and screen 
flows without context switches

•  Persona-oriented system views and workflows
•  Workflow automations for common tasks 
•  Progressive disclosure for contextual view of the 

network

• 

Identity-based navigational flows and a 
consistent user experience that increase user 
productivity, eliminate error prone manual 
operations, and speed up operation cycle times

•  Lower OpEx due to reduced requirement for highly 

skilled personnel; reduced training and support 
costs due to consistent interface and workflow 
automation

Device Management Interface 
(DMI)

•  XML schema and metadata files describing how 
to manage each release of the device’s software

•  Zero day device support
•  Future proofing of network investments

Hot-pluggable/multi-tenant 
applications

•  Hosted applications that can be hot-plugged into 

Junos Space platform via global dashboard 

•  Applications that leverage global platform 

capabilities but maintain their unique identities

•  Rapid deployment of applications and devices
• 

In-service application and device updates to 
increase uptime and business continuity

Application fabric

•  Distributed fabric of IP-connected physical 

or virtual appliances of pre-assembled, near 
identical full application stacks, including the 
complete Junos Space software to enable 
each appliance to provide full management 
functionality

•  End users who are able to access management 

applications through a single, public virtual IP
•  Fabric that is deployed in active/active cluster 

configuration

Network operations
Network discovery and inventory 
management

•  Network and device discovery
•  Near real-time network inventory
•  Dedicated socket connection to each device 
• 

Inventory management for automated collection 
of inventory data from Juniper devices.
Inventory views of physical and logical inventory 
of supported devices, allowing users to generate 
reports and track locations, availability, and 
deployment of hardware and software

• 

•  Automated synchronization between hardware 

inventory, interface information, and device 
configuration of the device

•  Multi-target specification (IP address, IP address 

range, IP subnet, host name) 

• 

• 

Instant scale by simply adding or deleting nodes 
on the fabric
Increased application availability and resilience 
due to no single point of failure

•  Resource optimization due to each node being 

fully utilized and load-balanced with others in the 
fabric

•  Supports Fault, Configuration, Accounting, 

Performance, Security (FCAPS) network 
management framework, and provides total 
management of network elements
Includes autodiscovery for improved asset 
management and network planning

• 

•  Enables secure notifications and action for each 

configuration change 

•  Detailed view of all hardware inventory (power 

supplies, chassis cards, fans, part numbers, etc.) 
for all managed devices to enable intelligent 
cataloging for effective system upgrades and 
modifications

Topology

•  Automated discovery of network topology (devices 

•  Flexible network visualization options for 

and interconnections) 

simplifying network operations

•  Tools for visualizing the discovered topology
•  Tabular view for device-specific details 
•  Topology view for broad network visibility
•  Semantic zooming for fine-grained device view

6

Data SheetJunos SpaceFeatures

Feature Description

Benefits

Software image management

•  Centralized device software installation for all 

managed devices

•  Provides the ability to do remote software 
upgrades and in-service software upgrades

Configuration templates

•  Enables device images to be uploaded from local 

•  Enables automated upgrade planning, scheduling, 

file system, and deployed onto a device or onto 
multiple devices of the same device family in a 
single workflow
Image verification for accuracy

• 

downloading, and monitoring of device images
•  Reduces errors with the use of a recommended 

image

•  Device configuration templates that provide the 
ability to design and push any configuration to a 
device or group of devices

•  Allows administrators to design, validate, and push 

configurations to device or device group

•  Enables deployment of common configuration 

•  Schema-driven GUI for template creation to 

across multiple devices

enable granular control

•  Allows operators to manipulate all knobs on a 

•  Entry forms to create template definitions
•  Audit log that captures all template deployment 

given device

operations

Configuration editor

•  Configuration editor that provides the ability to 

•  Allows operators to quickly view and modify any 

Configuration file management

view, edit, and delete all aspects of a device’s 
configuration

portion of a device’s configuration

•  Ability to view a given device’s configuration and 
edit, add, or delete portions of that configuration

•  Schema-driven
•  Up-to-date view of device’s configuration
•  Ability to view, edit, version control, compare, back 

up, and restore network configuration files

•  Simplified configuration management to optimize 

• 

network performance and health
Instant visibility into network configuration and 
performance correlation

•  Entry forms to create template definition and bulk 

modify configurations

•  Administrators able to compare different 

configuration versions either for the same or 
different devices

Junos OS script management

•  Configuration and management of Junos OS 

•  Centralized management of all Junos OS 

Full rapid application 
development framework

automation scripts, including import/export, view/
edit, version control, deploy/delete, and verify 
script execution

• 

Includes a common infrastructure, a tool kit with 
core services and user interface widgets, and 
integration APIs

automation scripts

•  Comprehensive development environment to 

rapidly create and monetize applications

•  Easy integration into operations support systems 

(OSS) and data center ecosystems

•  Ability to create mashups for market-specific 

solutions

JA2500

7

Data SheetJunos SpaceJunos Space Virtual Appliance
Juniper Networks Junos Space Virtual Appliance includes 
the complete Junos Space software package as well as the 
operating system. It requires users to create a virtual machine in 
order to deploy the appliance. The recommended specifications 
for the virtual machine are identical to the specifications of the 
physical appliance.  

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

Ordering Information
What to Buy

This product adheres to the Juniper Software Advantage pricing 
model. Users should order Junos Space as follows:

•  All Junos Space applications use a perpetual (unlimited 
term) license. This perpetual software license excludes 
Juniper Care Software Advantage, which must be purchased 
separately.

•  Determine which applications are desired, if any.

•  Junos Space Platform and the associated applications 

are priced based on the number of servers (Junos Space 
Platform), number of devices under management (Network 
Director and Security Director), number of events per second 
(Log Director), or number of ports under management 
(Connectivity Services Director). For the Junos Space 
platform, one JS-PLATFORM license key is required per 
server. For small one-server deployments, users may 
purchase the JS-PLT-SING license key. For applications, 
purchase the appropriate license key detailed below. 

•  Users may run Junos Space on both virtual and physical 

appliances; if running the virtual appliance, the necessary 
hardware must be procured separately. For information 
on supported hypervisor(s) and virtual machine (VM) 
requirements, please refer to the technical documentation for 
this product at www.juniper.net under the Support section.

Specifications

Dimensions (W x H x D)

Weight 

Rack mountable

A/C power supply

D/C power supply

JA2500

450 x 438.4 x 88 mm
(17.72 x 17.26 x 3.5 in

27 lbs 10oz 1PS, 30lbs 2PS

19” rack
Front and rear or mid-mount

90 to 264 V, 47-63 Hz, 2-6 A, 250 watt 
AC power module. Dual redundant 
option.
Efficiency 80Plus certified
Peak inrush current is: 

-40 A maximum at 115 VAC and 25 C
80 A maximum at 240 VAC and 25  

560 W DC power module 
-45 to -60 V DC power supply

Chassis material

18 gauge (.048”) cold-rolled-steel

Fans

Traffic ports

Console port

2 x 80 mm hot swap redundant fans 
(2nd optional)

4 x RJ45 10/100/1000
2 x IOC slots full height

1 x RJ45 serial console

Operating temperature

41° to 104° F (5° to 40° C)

Storage temperature

-40° to 158° F (-40° to 70° C)

Relative humidity 
(operating)

8% - 90% non-condensing

Relative humidity (storage)

5% - 95% non-condensing

Altitude (operating)

10,000 ft maximum

Altitude (storage)

40,000 ft maximum

Safety certifications

Emissions certifications

Warranty

NEBS

HDD

Memory

CPU

IOC slots

PSU

•  CSA 60950-1 (2003)
•  Safety of Information
•  Technology Equipment
•  UL 60950-1 (2003) 
•  EN 60950-1 (2001) 
• 
IEC 60950-1 (2001) 
•  EN 60825-1 +A1+A2 (1994) 

Safety of Laser Products - Part 1: 
Equipment Classification

•  EN 60825-2 (2000) Safety of Laser 

Safety of Optical Fiber Comm. 
Systems

•  FCC Class A
•  EN 55022 Class A
•  EN 55024 Immunity
•  EN 61000-3-2
•  VCCI Class A

Hardware one year and software 90 
days

No

6 x 1TB Seagate Constellation.2 7200 
2.5” SAS HDD5
RAID 10 array, LSI 2308 controller4 
onboard

32GB memory in a total of 4 DIMM 
slots (4x8GB DIMM modules) - DDR3-
1600 ECC unbuffered

Intel Xeon E3-1225v2 3.20GHz, 4C/4T2
77W Quad-Core Processor, 1 HW 
thread/core

2 x full height

AC (Dual optional), 
(DC optional)

8

Data SheetJunos SpaceJunos Space Platform

Product Number

Description

JS-PLATFORM

JS-PLT-SING

Junos Space Network Management Platform, 
4 cores

Junos Space Platform—Single Node Only SKU.  
Not to be used for HA deployments.

JA2500-A-BSE

Junos Space 2500—Large Appliance

Junos Space Applications

Product Number

Description

CSD-100G

CSD-10G

CSD-1G

CSD-40G

CSD-API

CSD-BASE

CSD-SYNC

ESD-BASE-10

ESD-SRV1-10

Connectivity Services Director license to 
manage services on a 100GbE port (must 
have CSD-BASE)

Connectivity Services Director license to 
manage services on a 10GbE port using CSD 
(must have CSD-BASE)

Connectivity Services Director license to 
manage services on a 1GbE port using CSD 
(must have CSD-BASE)

Connectivity Services Director license to 
manage services on a 40GbE port using CSD 
(must have CSD-BASE)

REST API library support for Connectivity 
Services Director (must have CSD-BASE)

Connectivity Services Director base package 
including templates for ELINE, VPLS and 
L3VPN services

Optional synchronization management add-
on to Connectivity Services Director (must 
have CSD-BASE)

Edge Services Director base package 
(Discovery, Inventory, Monitoring, Dashboard)

Services Package on ESD for Service 
Designer for CGNAT, FW, ADC, Policy Filter 
Manager, Traffic Analyzer

ESD-SRV2-10

Service Package on ESD for TLB 4.0, TDF, DPI

ESD-UPGRADE-10

Base ESD package upgrade with feature 
enhancements to FM, PM, HA Management

JS-LOGDIRECTOR-
10K

Junos Space Log Director, additional 10,000 
EPS

JS-LOGDIRECTOR-1K Junos Space Log Director, additional 1,000 

EPS

JS-
LOGDIRECTOR-500

Junos Space Log Director, additional 500 
EPS

JS-LOGDIRECTOR-
5K

Junos Space Log Director, additional 5,000 
EPS

Product Number

Description

JS-NETDIR-10

JS-NETDIR-100

JS-NETDIR-25

JS-SECDIR-10

JS-SECDIR-100

JS-SECDIR-5

Junos Space Network Director 10 devices; 
requires Junos Space Network Management 
Platform

Junos Space Network Director 100 devices; 
requires Junos Space Network Management 
Platform

Junos Space Network Director 25 devices; 
requires Junos Space Network Management 
Platform

Junos Space Security Director 10 devices; 
requires Junos Space Network Management 
Platform

Junos Space Security Director 100 devices; 
requires Junos Space Network Management 
Platform

Junos Space Security Director 5 devices; 
requires Junos Space Network Management 
Platform

Spares

Product Number

Description

UNIV-250W-PS-AC

Replacement AC power supply (250W)

UNIV-560W-PS-DC

Replacement DC power supply

UNIV-SFPP-DUAL-LR

Dual Rate SFP+ Long Range Optics LR/LX

UNIV-SFPP-DUAL-SR

Dual Rate SFP+ Short Range Optics SR/SX

UNIV-2U-UNIMNT-G

Universal rack mount 

UNIV-MR2U-B-FAN-G Replacement fan

Juniper Networks products are sold directly as well as through 
Juniper partners and resellers. For more information on the 
Juniper Software Advantage business model, please visit  
www.juniper.net/us/en/products-services/network-
management/junos-space-platform

For information on how to buy, please visit: www.juniper.net/us/
en/how-to-buy

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2016 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetJunos Space1000297-014-EN  May 2016