Contrail Cloud Platform

Product Overview

In the age of collaborative 
innovation, organizations are 
connecting data to people, 
people to ideas, and ideas 
to business value by building 
customized, highly differentiated 
cloud services connected to 
intelligent networks. Contrail 
Cloud Platform combines the 
automation capabilities of 
Contrail Networking with Juniper’s 
OpenStack distribution, providing 
a turnkey cloud orchestration and 
automation platform for creating, 
scaling, and seamlessly joining 
open, intelligent, and reliable 
OpenStack clouds through secure 
networks. Combined with Juniper 
professional services and a rich 
ecosystem of technology and 
integration partners, Contrail 
Cloud can stand up private, 
public, hybrid, and telco clouds. 

Your ideas. Connected.™

Product Description 
Federated clouds are becoming the solution of choice for creating elastic infrastructures 
that meet dynamic business needs in an agile fashion, increasing the availability and 
flexibility of the services they deliver to end users. CIOs, CTOs, and cloud architects are 
increasingly building hybrid IT as a service as well as highly differentiated cloud services to 
address their unique application, compliance, and reliability needs, and federating these 
clouds through highly intelligent networks. 

Juniper Networks® Contrail Cloud Platform is a complete turnkey cloud management 
platform that is hardened and integrated from open source technologies including 
OpenStack cloud management platform, Open Contrail, Ceph distributed storage system, 
and Puppet server management. The Contrail Cloud Platform automates the orchestration 
of compute, storage, and networking resources to create and scale open, intelligent, and 
reliable OpenStack clouds that seamlessly merge and hybridize through highly intelligent 
and secure networks.

Capitalizing on the inherent innovation of multiple open source platforms, scale-out 
software architecture, standards-based network interoperability, and policy-based 
automation, Contrail Cloud Platform delivers a robust, multitenant, and elastic cloud for 
predictable economies of scale, with enhanced interoperability, security, performance, 
and resiliency. As expectations for cloud automation and continuous integration continue 
to evolve, Contrail Cloud Platform is part of an open cloud ecosystem that embraces key 
partnerships and industry initiatives. This ecosystem not only gives customers freedom of 
choice to select best-in-class modules for building their customized infrastructure, it also 
boosts the maturity and breadth of the platform itself.

As businesses evolve to a more connected future, it’s essential to co-create cloud 
infrastructure with an innovative technology leader who understands both enterprise and 
service provider industries—a leader with significant experience in both networking and 
IT that builds solutions based on open principles. Contrail Cloud Platform stands out by 
delivering cloud management and automation in a way that gives users freedom of choice, 
intelligent automation, and always-on reliability.

Architecture and Key Components
Contrail Cloud Platform consists of the following key components:

•  OpenStack: An open source cloud management platform supported by a fast 

growing community of cloud developers, end users, and technology vendors, 
OpenStack software controls large pools of compute, storage, and networking 
resources throughout a data center, managed through a dashboard or via the 
OpenStack API. OpenStack works with popular commercial and open source 
technologies, making it ideal for heterogeneous infrastructure. Juniper is a Gold 
Member of the OpenStack Foundation, which maintains the OpenStack community 
and manages its development.

1

Data Sheet•  Contrail Networking powered by OpenContrail: Contrail 
Networking is a simple, open, and agile overlay-style SDN 
solution that automates and orchestrates the creation of 
highly scalable virtual networks. Based on open, proven 
network standards and protocols, Contrail Networking can 
seamlessly integrate with physical routers and switches 
to eliminate the challenges of cloud networking. Contrail 
Networking is integrated with OpenStack through a 
Neutron plug in.

•  Ceph: A massively scalable, open source, software-defined 

storage system that is capable of auto-scaling to the exabyte 
level and beyond, Ceph unifies object and block storage 
for OpenStack cloud deployments that run on commodity 
hardware, is self-healing and self-managing, and has no 
single point of failure. 

•  Server Manager: Contrail Cloud Platform uses Puppet 

software, an open source configuration management tool, to 
perform configuration management on target servers under its 
control, including the installation and configuration of different 
software packages and the launching of various services. 

Features and Benefits
Freedom of Choice

Whether you are deploying public, private, or hybrid clouds in 
centralized data centers, or a distributed telco cloud for Network 
Functions Virtualization (NFV) applications, Contrail Cloud 
Platform gives you the freedom to use any standard server, 
storage hardware, or IP network, and seamlessly pool resources 
regardless of where they are physically located. Offering support 
for a broad range of hardware options, multiple hypervisors, Linux 
containers such as Docker, and Linux bare metal, customers can 
select the best compute infrastructure based on their unique 
application requirements. By including Contrail Networking, an 
overlay style SDN solution, customers enjoy the benefits of an 
agile federated cloud without ripping and replacing their existing 
network hardware and without fear of future lock-in to a specific 
hardware vendor. In addition, Contrail Cloud Platform provides 
a set of open APIs to interoperate and integrate with products 
and solutions from Juniper’s ecosystem partners. These open 
APIs not only allow customers to pick best-in-class modules 
to customize their infrastructure without vendor lock-in, they 
also support a healthy and growing ecosystem that encourages 
participation by multiple vendors to ignite innovations that enrich 
cloud offerings.

Intelligent Automation

Contrail Cloud Platform delivers business agility, predictable 
operational excellence, and total cost of ownership (TCO) 
optimization through the intelligent automation of resource 
allocation and scaling, infrastructure configuration, and 
application life cycle management. It does this by establishing 
an application provisioning feedback loop, using the insights 
derived from rich infrastructure analytics to drive application 
resource adjustment and optimization. Contrail Cloud Platform 
then builds a policy-driven infrastructure that accepts application 
resource allocation, scaling, and security requests as high-level 
declarative policies, implementing them as low-level machine 
understandable configurations. This feedback loop and the 
automation it enables minimize manual intervention of cloud 
application provisioning. 

Always-On Reliability

The cloud is increasingly carrying mission-critical business 
applications and data, and Cloud Builders expect the cloud to 
deliver always-on reliability to their end users. Contrail Cloud 
Platform meets that requirement by providing high availability, 
robust security, and elastic scalability to both the platform itself 
and the applications running on top of it.

•  High Availability: Contrail Cloud Platform is designed to run 

in a distributed fashion and scale out for high availability 
and horizontal scaling. By reducing the size of the failure 
domain and performing backup and replication consistently, 
it enables in-service software upgrades and error recovery 
without downtime.

•  Robust Security: With Contrail Cloud Platform, security for 

virtualized environments can be enforced in a more granular 
way at the hypervisor level, automatically “following” mobile 
workloads. In addition, a wide range of security functions 
from both Juniper and ecosystem partners is available 
to run on top of Contrail Cloud Platform, protecting the 
infrastructure and workload.

•  Elastic Scalability: Contrail Cloud Platform is responsive 

enough to change resource provisioning levels on demand. 
This is reflected in three ways: elastically scale virtualized 
resources up and down on demand; scale infrastructure 
beyond data center and cloud boundaries; and scale software 
out to meet any control and management demands. 

2

Data SheetContrail Cloud PlatformFeatures

Benefits

OpenStack release compatibility: Contrail Cloud Platform releases 
are aligned with an OpenStack community release, maintaining API 
compatibility.

Automated Resource Provisioning: Contrail Cloud Platform can 
intelligently automate the provisioning, configuration, and operation 
of compute, storage, and networking resources needed by cloud 
applications.

Seamless Inter-Cloud Federation and Compatibility: Cloud network 
virtualization is designed to use a set of proven networking standards 
and protocols to make it easy to extend a virtual network across 
multiple data centers and clouds. Virtual PC (VPC) API provides 
compatibility with public clouds such as Amazon Web Services 
(AWS).

High Availability and Scalability: Contrail Cloud Platform supports 
high availability (HA) and scalability for both OpenStack and Contrail 
Networking through a scale out software architecture that can expand 
elastically and is built to handle failures gracefully. It includes built-in 
software deployment redundancy and backup. 

Rich and Prescriptive Analytics: Powered by a high-speed data 
collection engine, the Contrail Cloud Platform provides granular 
infrastructure telemetry information through very large-scale ingestion 
and querying of structured and unstructured data. Real-time and 
historical data is available via a simple REST API, and information from 
virtual and physical layers are correlated.

Specifications
System recommendations and operating environment:

•  Hardware: 64-bit dual x86 processor, minimum memory 64 

GB RAM

•  Storage: >64 GB Serial Advanced Technology Advancement 

(SATA), Serial Attached SCSI (SAS), or solid-state drive 
(SSD); volume storage: two disks with 2 TB SATA

•  Network: 1GbE or 10GbE interface card (one or more)

•  OS: Linux OS (CentOS 6.4 or 6.5, Ubuntu 12.04.3 or later) 

Ordering Information
This product adheres to the Juniper Software Advantage 
pricing model, so please be advised of the following items that 
constitute an order:

•  Select a software license based on the number of sockets 
required. The license is either subscription (fixed term) or 
perpetual (unlimited term).

 -   A subscription software license includes Juniper Care 

Software Advantage, entitling you to software updates 
and upgrades, 24x7 remote technical support, and online 
support.

 -   A perpetual software license excludes Juniper Care 
Software Advantage; the latter must be purchased.

•  Leverages strong community support behind the OpenStack project 

for new innovations and accelerated software maturity.

•  Minimizes any manual intervention of the application provisioning 

process while improving operational efficiency and reducing 
operational cost.

•  Enables workload mobility and workload placement flexibility.
•  Facilitates backup and disaster recovery across multiple data 

centers or clouds.

•  Allows DevOps automation scripts to be written once and deployed 

anywhere.

•  Provides anytime availability of the cloud for operation, activation, 

and management of new and existing application workloads.

•  Provides visibility into a wide range of information to facilitate 

system monitoring and troubleshooting.

•  Optimizes infrastructure planning based on usage patterns.
•  Provides opportunities to create value-added services based on 

infrastructure analytics.

• 

• 

If your order includes a hardware product/platform, select 
a hardware license based on your networking, connectivity, 
and/or security requirements (e.g., interface options, I/O, 
services). You may need to purchase additional licenses in 
support of the base hardware license (e.g., power cables, 
network interface cards).

If this is a virtual appliance/software product, you would not 
buy any hardware license from Juniper, but instead procure 
the hardware elsewhere. For information on supported 
hypervisor(s) and virtual machine (VM) requirements, please 
refer to the technical documentation for this product on our 
website (www. juniper.net) under the support section.

Juniper Networks products are sold directly as well as through 
Juniper partners and resellers. For more information on the 
Juniper Software Advantage business model, please visit  
www.juniper.net/us/en/products-services/sdn/contrail/.

For information on how to buy, please visit: www.juniper.net/us/
en/how-to-buy.

3

Data SheetContrail Cloud PlatformAbout Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2014 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetContrail Cloud Platform1000519-001-EN  Oct 2014