Junos Fusion Technology

Product Overview

With Junos Fusion technology, 
network administrators can 
reduce network complexity 
and operational expenses by 
collapsing underlying network 
elements into a single, logical 
point of management using 
MX Series 3D Universal Edge 
Routers and QFX Series and EX 
Series switches running the Junos 
operating system.  Based on the 
IEEE 802.1BR standard, Junos 
Fusion technology is a rich, open 
framework that makes networks 
more versatile, extensible, 
and responsive in multivendor 
environments.

Product Description 
Growing network complexity continues to burden network administrators across 
networking layers, in service provider access networks, in data center networks, and in 
enterprise campus networks. This complexity is driving network administrators to staff 
large operations teams in order to configure and manage enormous numbers of endpoints 
through the network, increasing the operational, administrative, and management burden 
while driving TCO higher. 

The problem is compounded in heterogeneous environments, where network 
administrators have to integrate multiple network management systems (NMS), element 
management systems (EMS) and operations support systems (OSS), as well as deal with 
potential discrepancies in troubleshooting and provisioning between systems, creating 
opportunities for human error.

Network administrators need a cost-effective methodology to virtualize the large number 
of endpoints found in cloud data centers with top-of-rack switches, enterprise campus 
access networks with switches in wiring closets, mobile networks with micro- and macro-
cell site routers, and high-density aggregation sites requiring thousands of low-speed 
connections. Virtually fusing endpoint operation, administration, and management into 
the aggregation layer eliminates the complexity of scaling-out the ever growing number of 
endpoints in the network. 

Junos Fusion Technologies
Junos Fusion technology helps reduce network complexity and operational expenses by 
enabling multiple distributed devices to be managed as a single, logical device. Three 
different Junos Fusion architectures are available: Junos Fusion Provider Edge, Junos Fusion 
Data Center, and Junos Fusion Enterprise.

Junos Fusion Provider Edge

For service providers, Junos Fusion Provider Edge is a technology enabler that overcomes 
optical pluggable physical limitations by delegating low-speed optical interfaces to a cost-
appropriate switch, virtually expanding connectivity to thousands of ports from a single 
Juniper Networks MX Series 3D Universal Edge Router. 

Junos Fusion Data Center

Junos Fusion Data Center provides automated network configuration and simplifies 
scalability for medium to large data centers with the Juniper Networks QFX10000 line of 
Ethernet switches, QFX5100 switches, EX4300 switches, and MX Series routers.

1

Data SheetQFX10000
Aggregation

Devices

QFX5100/
EX4300
Satellite
Devices

Figure 1: Junos Fusion Data Center deployment.

Junos Fusion Enterprise

For enterprise networks, Junos Fusion Enterprise provides 
automated network configuration and simplifies scalability for 
medium to large enterprise networks with the Juniper Networks 
EX9200 line of Ethernet switches and EX4300, EX3400, EX2300, 
and EX2300-C switches. Junos Fusion Enterprise technology can 
be deployed across a building, or multiple buildings, to connect 
large numbers of devices in a fabric that can be managed as a 

Chicago

Cleveland

Junos Fusion Enterprise

Junos Fusion Data Center

EVPN

IP Fabric

Boston HOQ

Junos Fusion Enterprise

San Francisco

Junos Fusion Enterprise

single device.   

Figure 2: Junos Fusion Enterprise and Junos Fusion Data Center 

fabrics across multiple buildings.

In Junos Fusion Data Center and Junos Fusion Enterprise 
environments, Junos Space Network Director provides a single-
pane-of-glass solution for managing the entire network, enabling 

network agility and reducing costs. Using standards-based EVPN 
technology, multiple buildings configured with Junos Fusion 
Enterprise technology can be interconnected with Junos Fusion 
Data Center fabrics to form an IP fabric. In such a configuration, 
all enterprise buildings and data centers can follow uniform 
VLANs, configurations and policies rather than each building 
having separate VLANs and policies.

With Junos Fusion technology, service providers and enterprises 
can reduce network complexity and operational costs by 
collapsing underlying network elements into a single, logical point 
of control from Junos OS-based Juniper routing and switching 
platforms. It is designed for customers who need to cost-
effectively deploy many 1GbE/10GbE/40GbE/100GbE switch 
ports in a data center, business edge, or access and aggregation 
network that can be managed from a central device. In addition, 
existing switches and routers can be easily migrated to a Junos 
Fusion architecture with a simple software upgrade, offering full 
investment protection.

Key Components
The Junos Fusion architecture consists of two major components: 
“Aggregation” devices and “Satellite” devices. 

•  Aggregation devices: Aggregation devices serve as the core 
of a Junos Fusion fabric. One or two aggregation devices can 
be used in a single Junos Fusion fabric. All configurations 
take place from the Aggregation device.

•  Satellite devices: Satellite devices form the access layer of 
a Junos Fusion fabric. These devices, which are connected 
via uplinks to the Aggregation devices, need not be 
individually managed as the control plane resides on the 
Aggregation device. 

Depending on the technology, different products can be used 
as Aggregation or Satellite devices in a particular Junos Fusion 
Fabric (see Table 1).

2

Data SheetJunos Fusion TechnologyTable 1. Junos Fusion Supported Platforms

Junos Fusion Technology

Aggregation Device

Junos Fusion Provider Edge

Junos Fusion Data Center

Junos Fusion Enterprise

MX Series

QFX10000

EX9200

Satellite Device

QFX5100, EX4300

QFX5100, EX4300

Satellite Device Mode

Port-extended and distributed 
forwarding

EX4300, EX3400, EX2300, 
EX2300-C

Port-extended

Note: The Junos Fusion framework will also be extensible to support third-party devices in the future.

These components work together as a single switching system, 
flattening the network to a single tier without compromising 
resiliency. Network administrators can build individual Junos 
Fusion fabrics comprised of a pair of Aggregation devices and a 
set of Satellite devices; each fabric is a discrete unit, managed 
as a single device. Fabrics can be small—for example, a pair of 
Aggregation devices and a handful of Satellites—or large, with 
more than 100 Satellite devices supporting thousands of ports, 
based on the needs of the network operator.

In Junos Fusion Enterprise deployments, Satellite devices do 
not need to be individually connected to Aggregation devices.  
Up to 10 Satellite devices can be interconnected via standard 
10GbE/40GbE interfaces to form a “cluster,” which in turn can be 
connected to the Aggregation devices over a pair of fiber uplinks. 
Satellite devices or clusters can also be dual-homed or single-
homed to the Aggregation devices.

Junos Fusion Deployment Mode Options

Junos Fusion technology can be deployed in a variety of modes, 
depending on the desired deployment scenario. 

•  Port-Extended Mode: In port-extended mode, ports on 

the Junos Fusion Aggregation devices are extended to the 

Features and Benefits
Table 2: Junos Fusion Features and Benefits

Junos Fusion Satellite devices, virtually maintaining feature 
functionality of the Aggregation device’s port. All L2 and 
L3 decisions are processed on the Aggregation device, as 
the Satellite device provides simple connectivity back to 
the Aggregation device. A likely scenario for Junos Fusion 
extended and programmable mode on MX Series routers, 
EX Series switches or QFX Series switches would be in 
a multitenant data center environment used to connect 
a large number of servers running different applications 
owned by different tenants, as none of the servers or 
tenants need to communicate with one another. 

•  Distributed Forwarding Mode: Junos Fusion can also be 

deployed with distributed forwarding on Satellite devices for 
high-performance and low-latency applications. 

Only port-extended mode is supported by Junos Fusion Enterprise, 
so Satellite devices simply forward all traffic to the Aggregation 
device, enabling network administrators to monitor and manage 
the entire enterprise campus building from a single device. 
Features such as Power over Ethernet Plus (PoE+), LLDP-MED and 
802.1x are also supported in Junos Fusion Enterprise architectures 
to help meet enterprise campus requirements.

Feature
New service models

Benefit
•  New service models are enabled for deployments of data center, business edge, and access/aggregation 

networks.

Flexible deployment modes

•  Junos Fusion delivers a flexible model for deploying virtual Satellite devices from a single aggregation 

Centralized management 

Intelligent network services

control point. 

•  Physical optical interface limitations are overcome in order to support a larger number of ports not 

possible on a physical chassis.

•  A single device-based point of management is provided that uses capabilities embedded in Junos OS for 
provisioning, operations, monitoring, maintenance, logs, and platform discovery for many network devices 
connected as Satellite devices to a hub device.

•  Many lower-cost device types are centrally managed, overcoming chassis limitations on port counts and 

reducing cabling costs for port fan-out and port multiplexing deployments. 

•  Junos Fusion provides for centralized management of fabric devices while maintaining standalone device 

functionality, including L2 switching and L3 routing on Satellite devices.

•  Junos Space Network Director provides a smart, comprehensive, and automated network management 

solution that enables network and cloud administrators to visualize, analyze, and control their entire 
enterprise network—data center and campus, physical and virtual infrastructure, and wired and 
wireless—through a single pane of glass.

•  Junos Fusion enables the deployment of rich services on Satellite devices by maintaining their full 

• 

individual device feature sets while in the fabric mode.
Included are L2 switching on the Satellite device for server port aggregation and L3/MPLS routing on 
satellites for business access and mobile backhaul.

Intelligent deployment model

•  Unlike simple port multiplexer/demultiplexer designs, Junos Fusion Data Center and Junos Fusion 

Provider Edge optimize connection types and ensure high performance for multiple traffic types.

Extensibility 

•  A framework is provided to support future third-party devices.

3

Data SheetJunos Fusion TechnologyAbout Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks challenges the status quo with products, 
solutions and services that transform the economics of 
networking. Our team co-innovates with customers and partners 
to deliver automated, scalable and secure networks with agility, 
performance and value. Additional information can be found at 
Juniper Networks or connect with Juniper on Twitter and Facebook.

Juniper Networks Services and Support

Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling ser-
vices that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the net-
work to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, and 
availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/en/
products-services. 
Ordering Information 
Junos Fusion is offered as a part of platform fees. For details on 
how to order the controller or Satellite platforms, please refer to 
www.juniper.net or contact your sales representative.

EXPLORE JUNIPER
Get the App.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2017 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Juniper, and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice. APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetJunos Fusion Technology1000523-005-EN  May 2017