Junos VPN Site Secure

Including Site-to-site and Group VPN

Product Overview

Junos VPN Site Secure uses a 
variety of standard encryption 
techniques to secure network 
communications between the 
customer premises and the 
network edge. This adds security 
to traffic over L3 VPNs, and it 
enhances end-user security.

Choose between Site-to-site VPN 
or Group VPN, depending upon 
your implementation.

•  Choice of Site-to-site or Group 

VPN design

•  Use of industry standard proven 

cryptography

•  Any to any secure 

communication

•  Simplify management of 
secure branch-to-branch 
communication

•  Secure encryption for site-to-

site, private IP or MPLS networks

•  Encrypt all WAN traffic, meeting 
security compliance and internal 
governance

•  Group VPN maintains full-mesh 
connectivity and routing paths, 
without the management and 
performance cost of a full mesh 
network.

Your ideas. Connected.™

Product Description 
Juniper Networks® Junos® VPN Site Secure implements IPsec encryption using Advanced 
Encryption Standard (AES), Data Encryption Standard (DES), and triple Data Encryption 
Standard (3DES). With Junos VPN Site Secure, enterprises can provide IPsec encryption 
to enhance data security. Providers can offer IPsec encryption of access links from the 
customer premises device to the provider edge router, charging a premium for secure 
access to the network. The packets can then be securely forwarded or mapped into Layer 3 
VPNs for transport across the provider network. 

This application is particularly useful when offering a service to a customer whose access 
links are provisioned by a third-party provider. For the most concerned customers, providers 
can also offer IPsec encryption of unicast or multicast traffic over L3 VPNs for an added 
layer of security. IPsec may also be used to encrypt backhaul traffic by setting up encrypted 
tunnels across untrusted third-party wholesale networks.

Juniper Networks Group VPN is a different way to provide secure, any-to-any VPN 
connectivity between branch offices and anywhere within your network.  Group VPN 
simplifies the management issue brought on by growing networks while improving 
performance for bandwidth heavy applications.

Architecture and Key Components
MX Series Portfolio

Juniper Networks MX Series 3D Universal Edge Routers are industry-leading Ethernet 
services routers for carrier Ethernet capacity, density, and performance. Optimized for 
emerging Ethernet network architectures and services, the MX Series is purpose-built for 
the most demanding carrier and enterprise applications. It leverages Juniper Networks 
Junos operating system to enable carriers and enterprises to seamlessly and cost-
effectively deploy Ethernet and accelerate their next-generation network deployments. 
By combining a best-in-class hardware platform with the reliability and service flexibility 
of Junos OS, the MX Series delivers a combination of features and capabilities previously 
unattainable in carrier Ethernet deployments.

Multiservices Cards (MS-MPC, MS-MIC)

MS-MPCs and MS-MICs are next-generation, advanced service modules for Juniper 
Networks® MX Series 3D Universal Edge Routers. They deliver the performance, services, 
and scalability that are critical to today’s advanced Ethernet services edge and broadband 
edge networks. MS-MPCs are full slot modules that supply hardware acceleration for an 
array of packet processing-intensive services for the MX2020, MX2010, MX960, MX480, 
and MX240 3D Universal Edge Routers. The MS-MIC is based on Juniper’s MIC card 
hardware form and can be inserted in the MX5, MX10, MX40, and MX80 3D Universal Edge 
Routers, as well as the MPC1, MPC2, and MPC3 cards. 

1

Data SheetThese cards offer flexible support for stateful firewall, Network 
Address Translation (NAT), IPsec, anomaly detection, flow 
monitoring and accounting, and tunnel services. This wide 
array of services enables service providers and enterprises to 
secure their network infrastructure; collect rich statistics for 
billing, capacity planning, and security purposes; and create new 
services, all with a single module. 

Site-to-site VPN
Junos VPN Site Secure utilizes an IPsec VPN tunnel consisting of 
tunnel setup and applied security. During tunnel setup, the peers 
establish security associations (SAs), which define the parameters 
for securing traffic between them. After the tunnel is established, 
Junos VPN Site Secure protects the traffic sent between the two 
tunnel endpoints by applying the security parameters defined by 
the SAs during tunnel setup. Junos VPN Site Secure protects user 
data via IPsec encryption, and tunnel mode is useful for protecting 
traffic between different networks when traffic must pass through 
an intermediate untrusted network.

Group VPN
Juniper Group VPN is a method of encrypting communication 
between branch offices or within the data center core that is 
an alternative to site-to-site VPN over an MPLS network. This 
approach defines groups of VPN participants (Group Members) 
where each peer has a single tunnel to a defined group.  The VPN 
Group is defined and controlled by the Group Controller, which also 
plays the role of the Key Server (issuing encryption keys for the 
group).  A Group Member is a member of a particular VPN group, 
and can communicate securely to others in their defined group.

Specifications and Approvals
For a complete list of supported software features, please 
consult the Junos OS software documentation at www.juniper.
net/techpubs/software/.  

Junos VPN Site Secure offers a variety of encryption standards to 
ensure secure communications, especially for traffic in L3 VPNs 
that traverse third-party access links or transit wholesale networks.

Encryption algorithms (RFC 2405, RFC 2410):

•  Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) (128, 192, and 256 bit)

•  Triple Data Encryption Standard (3DES), DES, null 

Authentication Hash Algorithms (RFC 2403, RFC 2404):

•  Message Digest 5 (MD5); SHA-1 and SHA-2 (aka. SHA-256)

•  Fully qualified domain name (FQDN)

• 

 IPv6 for IPsec (RFC 2460)

Internet Key Exchange (IKE) modes: 

• 

IKE v1, IKEv2 support

•  Main/aggressive mode supported for IKE SA setup; quick 

mode supported for IPsec SA setup

•  Digital certificates (X.509) VeriSign; entrust

IPSec VPN Designs

• 

• 

 Site-to-site VPN

 Group VPN

Juniper Networks Services and Support

Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling ser-
vices that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the net-
work to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, and 
availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/en/
products-services. 

What to Buy
Junos VPN Siite Secure adheres to the Juniper Software 
Advantage pricing model, thus please be advised of the following 
items that constitute an order:

•  Select a software license based on the throughput required. 

The license is either subscription (fixed term) or perpetual 
(unlimited term).

•  A subscription software license includes Juniper Care 

Software Advantage, entitling you to software updates and 
upgrades, 24x7 remote technical support, and online support.

•  A perpetual software license excludes Juniper Care Software 

Advantage; the latter must be purchased.

• 

• 

If your order includes a hardware product/platform, select 
a hardware license based on your networking, connectivity, 
and/or security requirements (e.g., interface options, I/O, 
services). You may need to purchase additional licenses in 
support of the base hardware license (e.g., power cables, 
network interface cards).

If this is a virtual appliance/software product, you would not 
buy any hardware license from Juniper, but, instead, procure 
the hardware elsewhere. For information on supported 
hypervisor(s) and virtual machine (VM) requirements, please 
refer to the technical documentation for this product on our 
website (www. juniper.net) under the support section.

Juniper Networks products are sold directly as well as through 
Juniper partners and resellers. For more information on the 
Juniper Software Advantage business model, please visit  www.
juniper.net/us/en/products-services For information on how to 
buy, please visit: www.juniper.net/us/ en/how-to-buy.

2

Data SheetJunos VPN Site SecureOrdering Information

Model Number

Description

MS-MIC-16G

MS-MPC

MS-MIC with 16 GB of memory, occupies single 
MIC slot on MX5, MX10, MX40, and MX80 
3D Universal Edge Routers, as well as on the 
MPC1, MPC2, and MPC3 cards for the MX2020, 
MX2010, MX960, MX480, and MX240 3D 
Universal Edge Router.

MS-MPC with 128 GB of memory (32 GB 
per NPU) occupies a single slot in MX2020, 
MX2010, MX960, MX480, and MX240 3D 
Universal Edge Routers

 JVPN-ES

Junos VPN Site Secure IPSEC for Site-to-site 
and/or Group VPN

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2014 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetJunos VPN Site Secure1000457-002-EN  Oct 2014