proNX Service Manager

Product Overview

The proNX Service Manager 
helps network operations 
center personnel streamline the 
deployment and administration 
of next-generation metro and 
cloud networks. The software 
enables cloud and service 
providers to accelerate time-to-
market, increase service velocity, 
improve customer satisfaction, 
and boost profitability by 
eliminating operational expense 
and complexity.

Product Description 
Juniper Networks® proNX Service Manager software offers a graphical user interface 
that dramatically simplifies service activation, monitoring, and troubleshooting tasks. It 
also provides a complete set of device configuration, inventory, fault, and performance 
management capabilities for a broad variety of Juniper packet optical network elements.

Architecture and Key Components
The proNX Service Manager software includes provisioning templates, configuration 
wizards, and one-click service activation features that eliminate manually intensive and 
error-prone tasks, accelerate bandwidth turn-up and capacity expansion, and simplify 
operations. Using the point-and-click interface, NOC administrators can rapidly deploy new 
network resources and easily complete a wide variety of day-to-day tasks across the entire 
Juniper packet optical portfolio. High-level, service-centric views make it easy to provision, 
monitor, and troubleshoot end-to-end services. The proNX Service Manager solution 
provides a simple visual representation of each service, along with its components and 
performance details. The application also supports key fault, configuration, accounting, 
performance, and security management (FCAPS), including real-time and historical fault 
and performance reporting plus inventory management and software administration for 
network elements.

The proNX Service Manager Dashboard delivers a concise view of the health and 
performance of all Juniper packet optical platforms, including network-wide alarms and 
events as well as performance and inventory data. All information is presented on a single 
screen, allowing users to drill down to access detailed information as required.

At-a-glance network-wide visibility helps network administrators quickly identify and 
resolve issues, often before customers are even aware they exist. Utilization data provides 
instant visibility into configured and consumed capacity, allowing users to easily identify 
where network resources are reaching their limits and enabling proactive planning for 
network expansion. A browser-based responsive design user interface provides easy access 
from any device—PC, smartphone, or tablet.

1

Data SheetApplication So(cid:157)ware

proNX

Service Manager

proNX

Dashboard

Third-Party

Apps

RESTful APIs

Control So(cid:157)ware

proNX Control So(cid:157)ware

NETCONF, SNMP

Intelligent Network Infrastructure

BTI7800 Line

BTI7000 Line

BTI800 Line

MX Series

PTX Series

Network Nodes

Third-Party

Figure 1. Juniper Networks proNX software portfolio

Features and Benefits

•  Accelerates time-to-market and customer turn-up

•  Optimizes service quality and customer satisfaction

•  Eliminates manually intensive, error-prone management tasks

•  Reduces ongoing operational expenditures

•  Provides real-time visibility into network conditions

•  Offers service-centric GUI with network topology map and 

device views

•  Enables comprehensive web-based dashboard NOC 

monitoring

•  Delivers point-and-click service activation, monitoring, and 

troubleshooting

• 

Includes service provisioning templates, configuration 
wizards, and end-to-end provisioning tools

•  Provides FCAPS management capabilities

•  Produces real-time alarms, events, and performance 

statistics reports

•  Compiles historical fault and performance reports

•  Offers network element management, including backup/

restore, software and inventory management

Product Options
The proNX Service Manager is an integral component of 
Juniper Networks proNX Management Applications suite. The 
proNX software supports a layered, software-driven solutions 
architecture with distinct network, control, and application 
planes for ultimate scalability and extensibility.

Core Control Engine and Rich Management 
Applications

The proNX portfolio includes the proNX Control software domain 
controller, plus an extensive collection of service provisioning, 
monitoring, and troubleshooting applications including the proNX 
Service Manager. The proNX Control server provides a centralized 
control layer that facilitates end-to-end management and 
service orchestration across network elements and geographies. 
The software monitors and controls Juniper platforms via 
industry-standard NETCONF/YANG and SNMP interfaces. It 
also provides comprehensive northbound RESTful APIs that 
streamline integration with Juniper and third-party management 
applications such as operations support systems and business 
support systems (OSS/BSS).

2

Data SheetproNX Service ManagerHighly Scalable Client/Server Deployment Model

Juniper supports a distributed client/server network management 
deployment model. The proNX Service Manager software is 
a platform-independent, Java-based client front-end that 
communicates with back-end proNX Control servers via RESTful 
APIs. The proNX Dashboard Web client provides comprehensive 
monitoring and troubleshooting capabilities designed for NOC 
personnel to maximize service uptime. The proNX Control 
software runs on industry-standard x86 Linux hardware 
platforms or virtual machines, and can be clustered for high 
scalability and availability.

Figure 3. Service templates

Figure 2. Service Activation screen

Specifications
Supported products

Service types supported

Figure 4. Service Manager dashboard

BTI7800 line: BTI7814, BTI7802; BTI7801
BTI7000 line: BTI7200, BTI7060, BTI7030, BTI7020
BTI700 line: BTI702, BTI704, BTI712, BTI718, BTI718E
BTI800 line: BTI805, BTI810, BTI821, BTI822
MX Series 3D Universal Edge Routers: MX240, MX480, MX960, MX2010, MX2020
PTX Series Packet Transport Routers: PTX3000, PTX5000

Optical and transport layer services, including multiprotocol muxponders, multiprotocol 
transponders, reconfigurable optical add/drop multiplexing (ROADM), dense wavelength-division 
multiplexing (DWDM) OTN MIC

Carrier Ethernet: EPLINE, EVPLINE, EPLAN, EVPLAN, E-ACCESS, including UNI/ NNI, UNI/NNI LAG, 
SLA/CFM, Y.1731, ERPS, MEF pseudowire

Simultaneous client support

20

Base server hardware and software
recommendation

Intel 64 bit processor, 6 cores, 12 GB DDR3 RAM, 2x 1 TB 7k disks, hardware-based RAID, 2x 
10/100/1000 Ethernet

Note: proNX Service Manager and proNX Control Software are distributed together. They are not ordered separately.

Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.3 or later, CentOS equivalent

3

Data SheetproNX Service ManagerOrdering Information
For ordering information, please consult the Juniper Networks 
price list or contact your local Juniper sales representative. 

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks challenges the status quo with products, 
solutions and services that transform the economics of 
networking. Our team co-innovates with customers and partners 
to deliver automated, scalable and secure networks with agility, 
performance and value. Additional information can be found at 
Juniper Networks or connect with Juniper on Twitter and Facebook.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2016 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetproNX Service Manager1000603-001-EN   Oct 2016EXPLORE JUNIPERGet the App.