Junos Address Aware

Product Overview

Junos Address Aware is an 
addressing and tunneling 
software portfolio for the Juniper 
Networks MX Series 3D Universal 
Edge Routers that helps network 
operators conserve and extend 
their IPv4 address pool, ensure 
IPv4/IPv6 coexistence and 
pragmatically transition to IPv6 
in a cost effective and low risk 
manner, for the MX 3D Series of 
Universal Edge Routers.

Your ideas. Connected.™

Product Description 
In early 2011, the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) allocated the last of its 
inventory of large block IPv4 addresses. As a result, service providers, large enterprises and 
universities, cloud providers, federal agencies, and others are finding it increasingly difficult 
to acquire large IPv4 address blocks.

Juniper Networks® Junos® Address Aware provides a comprehensive set of technologies 
that mitigate IPv4 address depletion while ensuring IPv4/IPv6 coexistence. These 
technologies include IPv4/IPv6 dual stack, and NAT44, among others, and they enable a 
pragmatic, business-driven transition to IPv6.

Junos Address Aware is available as licensed software for new and existing Juniper Networks 
MX Series 3D Universal Edge Routers, which reduces implementation risks and ensures 
investment protection. With extensive IP expertise, leadership on key Internet Engineering 
Task Force (IETF) working groups, and a broad portfolio of solutions, Juniper is uniquely 
qualified to help you meet your most challenging technical and business requirements.

Architecture and Key Components
The MX Series 3D Universal Edge Routers Portfolio

The MX Series portfolio of Ethernet services routers is the industry leader for carrier Ethernet 
capacity, density and performance. Optimized for emerging Ethernet network architectures 
and services, the MX Series is purpose-built for the most demanding carrier and enterprise 
applications, and it leverages Juniper Networks Junos operating system to enable carriers 
and enterprises to seamlessly and cost-effectively deploy Ethernet and accelerate their next-
generation network deployments. By combining a best-in-class hardware platform with the 
reliability and service flexibility of Junos OS, the MX Series delivers a combination of features 
and capabilities previously unattainable in carrier Ethernet deployments.

Multiservices Cards (MS-MPC, MS-MIC)

MS-MPCs and MS-MICs are next-generation, advanced service modules for Juniper 
Networks® MX Series 3D Universal Edge Routers. They deliver the performance, services, 
and scalability that are critical to today’s advanced Ethernet services edge and broadband 
edge networks. MS-MPCs are full slot modules that supply hardware acceleration for an 
array of packet processing-intensive services for the MX2020, MX2010, MX960, MX480, 
and MX240 3D Universal Edge Routers. The MS-MIC is based on Juniper’s MIC card 
hardware form and can be inserted in the MX5, MX10, MX40, and MX80 3D Universal Edge 
Routers, as well as the MPC1, MPC2, and MPC3 cards.

These cards offer flexible support for stateful firewall, Network Address Translation (NAT), 
IPsec, anomaly detection, flow monitoring and accounting, and tunnel services. This 
wide array of services enables service providers and enterprises to secure their network 
infrastructure; collect rich statistics for billing, capacity planning, and security purposes; 
and create new services, all with a single module.  

1

Data SheetFeatures and Benefits

•  Offers low risk adoption via licensed software upgrade 

•  Enables customers to flexibly evaluate, select, and 

deploy network addressing solutions on new or previously 
installed MX Series devices

•  Provides mature, field-proven solutions for mobile, cable, 

wireline, and enterprise networks

•  Uses extensive application-level gateway (ALG ) for 

nondisruptive support of popular applications that are 
incompatible with Network Address Translation (NAT) 

• 

Includes user configurable session and session-rate per 
subscriber, as well as flows per profile limits

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

Ordering Information 

Model Number

Description

•  Offers flexible port allocation algorithms that include 

MS-MIC-16G

MS-MIC with 16 GB of memory, occupies single 
MIC slot on MX5, MX10, MX40, and MX80 
3D Universal Edge Routers, as well as on the 
MPC1, MPC2, and MPC3 cards for the MX2020, 
MX2010, MX960, MX480, and MX240 3D 
Universal Edge Router.

MS-MPC with 128 GB of memory (32 GB 
per NPU) occupies a single slot in MX2020, 
MX2010, MX960, MX480, and MX240 3D 
Universal Edge Routers

MS-MPC

port block, secure port block, round-robin across pools, 
random, sequential, and combinations

• 

Includes support for all BEHAVE RFCs: RFC 4787, RFC 
5382, RFC 5508, RFC 6889, Hairpinning, EIM and EIF, EIF 
prefix list support, address pooling paired, preserve range 
and parity, TCP simultaneous open, and configurable 
timeouts per application 

Specifications and Approvals
For a complete list of supported software features, please 
consult the Junos OS software documentation at www.juniper.
net/techpubs/software/.  

•  Protocols that mitigate IPv4 address depletion and ensure 

IPv4 and IPv6 coexistence and smooth transition to IPv6 
include:

 -   Draft-ietf-behave-lsn-requirements (common 

requirements for carrier-grade NAT devices)

 -   RFC 2663 (NAT44 and NAPT44)

 -   RFC 4787 (UDP Behave), RFC 5382 (TCP Behave), RFC 

5508 (ICMP Behave)

 -   RFC 6146 (Stateful NAT64)

 -   Draft-wing-softwire-port-control-protocol—Pinhole 

Control Protocol (PCP)

JAA-NAT

Junos Address Aware CGNAT

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2015 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetJunos Address Aware1000455-001-EN   Mar 2015