Service Control Gateway Solution 

Product Overview

Now more than ever, service 
providers are seeking network 
solutions that increase 
monetization, efficiency, and 
competitive advantage through 
rapid service delivery and 
granular service customization, 
while concurrently providing 
deep insight into network and 
subscriber usage patterns. 

The Service Control Gateway 
solution, supported on industry-
leading MX Series 3D Universal 
Edge Routers, is an access-
agnostic converged services 
platform that helps service 
providers of all types achieve 
these goals by enabling service 
innovation through consolidation, 
virtualization, automation, and 
analytics.

Your ideas. Connected.™

Product Description 
Today, services are typically delivered by a complex set of diverse network elements—
routers, switches, and service-specific appliances—each with its own unique OS, feature 
release schedules, maintenance and troubleshooting procedures, and power and cooling 
requirements. Service providers must test and validate each element, both individually 
and collectively, before stitching them together to create services in a lengthy, manually 
intensive, and risk-prone process. The result is a highly inflexible, expensive, and static 
network where new services require new elements and service modifications takes months 
to complete.

Therefore, it is no surprise that service providers want to transform their networks to 
improve service agility and increase operational efficiency. Service agility is required to 
support both consumer demand for personalization and business demand for a “cloud-
like” network experience; at the same time, operational efficiency is needed to speed 
service creation and contain TCO. 

This transformation requires network edges and service cores (Gi-LANs) that support 
automated, policy- and customer-driven service control and orchestration to enable the 
rapid instantiation or modification of virtualized services across multiple physical and 
virtual elements. 

Juniper Networks® Service Control Gateway (SCG) is an innovative services solution that 
facilitates this transformation, helping you achieve service agility and efficiency at scale. 
The Service Control Gateway supports multiple services organically, including carrier-grade 
NAT, firewall, server load balancing, IP/MPLS VPNs, switching, and routing—which reduces 
network cost and complexity by eliminating numerous elements, operating systems, and 
element interconnections. 

The Service Control Gateway utilizes subscriber awareness, deep packet inspection 
(DPI), and policy management to determine traffic treatment on a per-subscriber and 
per-application basis, enabling highly customizable and differentiated services at scale. 
Working with Juniper Networks Contrail Cloud Platform, the SCG can steer traffic into 
complex service chains that include onboarding services as well as other physical and 
virtual appliances. This granular understanding of traffic flows provides a rich set of data 
to analytics engines and back-office systems to permit real-time charging and end-user 
engagement at the application and content level.

Implemented on Juniper Networks MX Series 3D Universal Edge Routers, the SCG solution 
scales to provide the capacity and performance needed to confidently meet traffic 
demands today and tomorrow. A wide range of services can be implemented directly on 
Modular Port Concentrators (MPCs), as well as on MS-MPCs and MS-MICs that provide 
dedicated compute resources for processor-intensive applications. Both MPCs and MS-
MPCs are powered by the programmable Junos® Trio chipset, ensuring service consistency 
and line-rate performance.

1

Data SheetActing as a true service gateway, the SCG solution delivers a 
converged scalable service architecture with a single control 
plane across network services and value-added services in the 
same scalable and cost-effective platform. With extensibility to 
third-party physical and virtual appliances, the SCG represents 
a single point of operations support systems (OSS) integration; 
when combined with Contrail, it also supports complex service 
chains for highly automated and customized services. 

IP flow to a mobile subscriber identity (IMSI or MSISDN) or 
fixed subscriber identity (username, Line ID, E164) via RADIUS. 
Subscriber management passes subscriber identity (from AAA) 
to the policy and charging enforcement function (PCEF), which 
maps the subscriber’s identity, policy (Gx), and application 
metadata and enforces policies on the data traffic. Dynamic 
application and signature database updates are also supported 
to keep up with the flood of new protocols.

Architecture and Key Components
The essence of the Service Control Gateway is its unique 
ability to incorporate subscriber identification (via access-
agnostic subscriber learning), application identification (via 
DPI technology), and policy-based network control (via 
integration with policy and charging rule function [PCRF] and/or 
RADIUS AAA) on a single platform. Each application is licensed 
separately; additional services can be layered on top of these 
core capabilities or implemented independently. 

The SCG solution is built on MX Series 3D Universal Edge Routers, 
a portfolio of high-performance, software-centric physical and 
virtual routers that support a broad set of applications in service 
provider, enterprise, and cloud networks. In addition to offering 
extremely high-density network connectivity via 100GbE, 10GbE, 
and 1GbE interfaces, the MX Series uses MS-MPCs and MS-
MICs to provide dedicated compute resources for the packet 
processing-intensive services enabled by the SCG. MS-MPCs 
deliver services at scale while maintaining great performance. 
With powerful routing, switching, and services capabilities, the MX 
Series delivers unmatched flexibility and investment protection. 

Powered by Juniper Networks Junos operating system and the 
programmable Junos Trio Chipset, the MX Series streamlines 
network operations and improves the availability, performance, 
and security of all types of services. It offers the most complete, 
advanced features in the industry, including traffic segmentation 
and virtualization with MPLS, subscriber management, 
sophisticated virtualization techniques including virtual CPE 
(vCPE) and low-latency multicast, as well as comprehensive 
security and quality-of-service (QoS) implementations that 
ensure the quality delivery of time-sensitive applications and 
services. Optimized for emerging network architectures and 
services, the MX Series is purpose-built for the most demanding 
carrier and enterprise applications. By combining the best-
in-class MX Series with the reliability and service flexibility of 
Junos OS, the MX Series delivers a combination of features and 
capabilities unparalleled in edge routing. 

Junos Subscriber Aware 

Junos Subscriber Aware is a licensed application that allows 
the SCG to operate in RADIUS accounting server mode to learn 
subscriber identity, device type, and other useful information 
via RADIUS accounting messages. The SCG solution binds an 

Junos Application Aware

Junos Application Aware uses DPI to enable extensive 
protocol and application coverage and metadata extraction. 
More than 1,500 protocols and applications and 5,000+ 
metadata extractions are supported using the advanced DPI 
engine. Categories of protocols that can be detected include 
standardized protocols, Web applications, next-generation IP-
based services, P2P protocols, and terminal and desktop sharing. 
Integrated into the PCEF, Junos Application Aware passes the 
application detection metadata to the PCEF, which maps the 
subscriber identity (from AAA), policy (Gx), and application 
metadata and enforces policies on the data traffic. Dynamic 
application and signature database updates are also supported 
to keep up with the flood of new protocols.

Junos Policy Control

The SCG solution invokes subscriber- and application-level 
policies by interfacing with PCRF using a diameter interface. 
This interface is a pre-standards implementation of the Third 
Generation Partnership Project Sd application (3GPPSd) 
interface and includes support for Application Detection and 
Control rules, which will be available in 3GPP release 12. The 
SCG binds a subscriber context (learned through RADIUS) with a 
set of per-subscriber policies, provisioned by a PCRF via Gx / Sd 
interfaces. The SCG then performs policy control on a per flow 
(at L4 or L7) such as gating or rating limiting in uplink or downlink 
direction and redirection

Junos Web Aware

Junos Web Aware dynamically associates HTTP transactions 
with the subscriber that initiated the request, and can insert 
provider-defined tags into the HTTP header when a request 
matches a provider-defined policy. HTTP requests and responses 
can also be dynamically redirected when the request or response 
matches a provider-defined policy. 

These capabilities leverage subscriber relationships to further 
monetize the network and increase average revenue per user 
(ARPU) with new services like parental control, blacklisting, and 
threat mitigation; these subscriber relationships can be further 
monetized by relationships with online advertisers. Of course, 
HTTP transactions can also be filtered, counted, and logged for 
reporting and analytics purposes.

2

Data SheetService Control Gateway SolutionJunos Address Aware (Carrier-Grade NAT)

Junos Address Aware is a licensed addressing and tunneling 
software that conserves and extends the IPv4 address pool, 
ensuring IPv4/IPv6 coexistence and pragmatically transitioning 
to IPv6 in a cost-effective and low risk manner. Mature and field-
proven, Junos Address Aware is widely deployed in mobile, cable, 
and wireline networks1 globally.

Junos Address Aware provides a comprehensive set of 
technologies, including IPv4/IPv6 dual stack and NAT44, 
NAPT44, NAT-PT, NAT64, 6to4-PMT, 6rd, and DS-lite. Junos 
Address Aware also supports all BEHAVE RFCs2, as well as 
hairpinning, endpoint independent mapping (EIM) and endpoint 
independent filtering (EIF), EIF prefix list support, address pooling 
paired, and many other features. Operational features include 
flexible port allocation algorithms (port block, secure port block, 
round-robin across pools, random, sequential, and combinations) 
and an extensive set of application-level gateways (ALGs) for 
supporting popular applications incompatible with NAT.

Junos Network Secure (Stateful Firewall)

Junos Network Secure implements a per-flow state table and 
performs packet inspection to track and control the flow of 
traffic and detect attacks, including anomaly-based attacks, 
by dropping packets that do not comply with the protocol 
state. These stateful firewall capabilities provide security by 
using state information derived from past communications and 
other applications to make dynamic control decisions for new 
communication attempts. 

Junos Network Secure is often used in conjunction with Junos 
Address Aware to provide an extra layer of protection for the 
carrier-grade NAT infrastructure, and can also be offered as part 
of a revenue-generating managed service. 

Junos VPN Site Secure (IPsec)

Junos VPN Site Secure is an important component of revenue-
generating managed services, as it implements industry-
standard IPsec cryptography to enable secure branch-to-branch 
communications of private IP or MPLS networks. You can use 
Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), Data Encryption Standard 
(DES), and triple Data Encryption Standard (3DES) to encrypt 
traffic over site-to-site VPNs between customer locations, 
between a customer premises device and your edge network over 
a third-party access network, and between your edge networks 
over a third-party transport network. 

It is also possible to create Group VPNs that simplify 
management by defining groups of VPN participants where each 
peer has a single tunnel to a defined group. The VPN Group is 
defined and controlled by the Group Controller, which is also the 
Key Server. A group member can communicate securely to others 
in their defined group.

Junos Traffic Load Balancer

Junos Traffic Load Balancer is a traffic distributor built on a 
combination of hash-based packet load balancing and server 
health monitoring. It uses an enhanced version of equal-cost 
multipath (ECMP) to facilitate the distribution of sessions across 
multiple next-hop servers. Enhancements to native ECMP ensure 
that when servers fail, only flows associated with those servers 
are impacted, minimizing the overall network churn on services 
and sessions.

Junos Traffic Vision (Flow Monitoring)

Junos Traffic Vision monitors traffic flows, collects and 
aggregates key flow details, and exports flow records to third-
party offline applications using industry standard-based formats. 
It can be implemented at the individual interface, sub-interface, 
or virtual router level to enable usage-based accounting, traffic 
profiling, traffic engineering, attack/intrusion detection, capacity 
planning, traffic analysis for peering policy decisions, and service-
level agreement (SLA) monitoring. 

Importantly, Junos Traffic Vision performs analysis on mirrored 
traffic, which is replicated and sampled on ingress without 
introducing delay or jitter to the production traffic. In fact, all 
monitoring is transparent to the network and can take place 
alongside lawful intercept filtering and port mirroring, without any 
impact on performance or changes to end stations. 

Junos Video Focus

Junos Video Focus uses IETF RFC 4445 Media Delivery Index (MDI) 
as well as MPEG and RTP header analysis to assess video quality. 
Deployed inline on MX Series MPCs, Junos Video Focus can be 
broadly implemented without adding the cost and complexity 
imposed by specialized video probes and port mirroring. 

Junos Video Focus monitors and assesses video quality at the 
ingress and egress ports using Delay Factor (DF), Media Loss 
Rate (MLR), and Media Rate Variation (MRV); it also analyzes 
MPEG headers to identify the specific video streams impacted by 
network issues. Critically, Junos Video Focus can detect potential 
issues before they affect services; when configurable thresholds 
are exceeded, alarms are triggered to alert you before customers 
are impacted.

1  Junos Address Aware has been implemented by 80 of the largest 125 service providers 

globally.

2  BEHAVE RFCs include RFC 4787, RFC 5382, RFC 5508, and RFC 6889.

3

Data SheetService Control Gateway SolutionFeatures and Benefits
Operational Improvements Through Service 
Consolidation

Consolidating routing, switching, security, and services 
on the MX Series 3D Universal Edge Routers significantly 
simplifies network and service design, lowers the time and 
cost to implement and operate your network, and reduces 
environmental impact. Running multiple applications and Junos 
OS on the MX Series improves operations and provides a single 
release train for feature enhancements. Consolidation also 
reduces implementation and service risks. All applications are 
“prequalified” to work together and are added to the platform 
by software license, without having to qualify new hardware or 
releases.

ACG Research found that by eliminating appliances and 
operating systems, reducing training and troubleshooting 
complexity, and providing a single element management system 
(EMS) and point of OSS integration, the SCG solution lowers TCO 
by up to 49 percent, Operation, Administration, and Maintenance 
(OAM) costs by up to 80 percent, and power demands by up to 
64 percent.3

Higher ROI Through Investment Protection

The ability to non-disruptively add services and service capacity 
to MX Series platforms helps you nimbly adapt to developing 
market opportunities and service evolution. Low risk service 
adoption via software license lets you flexibly evaluate and 
deploy innovative services on new and previously installed MX 
Series platforms, extending the value of the MX Series well 
beyond initial deployment applications. 

Increased Automation with Dynamic Service 
Selection

The Service Control Gateway solution supports dynamic policy-
based forwarding decisions based on subscriber identity and 
application types. Additionally, it is possible to incorporate 
network conditions to make traffic steering decisions. This 
permits the selection of optimal traffic paths for individual 
applications and subscriber groups in support of tiered service 
plans and service personalization and customization. It also 
ensures the most efficient utilization of network elements. 

The SCG solution can steer traffic into a predefined sequence 
of services (aka service chaining) in order to create more 
complex services. In conjunction with service orchestration from 
Contrail Cloud Platform, the SCG can act as the “service chain 
attachment point”—the element where end-to-end service 
chains are initiated and where flows are steered to a specific 
service chain that includes services running on the SCG as well as 
services running on non-Juniper appliances. 

Consistent Subscriber Experience in Converged 
Fixed/Mobile Networks 

The SCG solution offers access-agnostic subscriber- and 
application-level policy control that you can leverage to maintain 
a unified online experience, regardless of how the subscriber 
connects to the network. Subscriber identification is access-
agnostic and supports both fixed and mobile access types using 
standard AAA accounting messages. Application-level policy 
control is based on DPI running on the SCG, without the need for 
external appliances. 

Reporting and Analytics

The Service Control Gateway logs and reports detailed flow L3/
L4 and L7 metadata on a per-subscriber and per-application 
basis, in real time, without impacting forwarding performance 
or platform scale. This data can be forwarded to third-party 
big data analytics systems that deliver reports and dashboards 
about subscribers’ data consumption and application usage. 
These reports can also support sales and marketing activities by 
identifying the most popular over-the-top (OTT) services as well 
as the most active users. Traffic profiling information also helps 
network design and engineering teams accurately plan for service 
growth and optimize the network for traffic distribution.

Specifications
The Service Control Gateway is supported on the MX960, 
MX480, and MX240 3D Universal Edge Routers using the RE-
1800, Enhanced Switch Control Board (SCBE/SCBE2), and 
MS-MPCs. The following table lists basic dimension and power 
specifications by platform; for comprehensive platform and 
module specifications, please refer to the hardware installation 
manuals at www.juniper.net/techpubs/hardware. 

Specification

MX240

MX480

MX960

Physical dimensions (W x H x D)

17.5 x 8.7 x 23.8 in
(44.5 x 22.1 x 60.5 cm)

17.5 x 14 x 23.8 in
(44.5 x 35.6 x 60.5 cm)

17.5 x 27.8 x 23.5 in
(44.5 x 70.5 [16 U] x 59.7 cm)

Weight (lb/kg) fully configured

130 lb/59 kg

Mounting

Power (DC/AC)

Front or center

-40 to -72 V DC
100 to 240 V AC

180 lb/81.7 kg

Front or center

-40 to -72 V DC
100 to 240 V AC

334 lb/151.6 kg

Front or center

-40 to -72 V DC
100 to 240 V AC

For all software specifications, refer to Junos OS documentation at www.juniper.net/techpubs/software.

3  Optimizing the Network Edge with Juniper Networks MX Series 3D Universal Edge Router; ACG Research.

4

Data SheetService Control Gateway SolutionJuniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

Warranty 
For warranty information, please visit www.juniper.net/support/
warranty/. 

Ordering Information
The following table provides ordering information for the 
licensed software that alone or in combination creates the 
Service Control Gateway. For MX960, MX480, MX240 ordering 
information, please see www.juniper.net/assets/us/en/local/pdf/
datasheets/1000208-en.pdf.

Model Number Description
Junos Subscriber Aware
JSUB-10K

Junos Subscriber Aware policy enforcement 
(local policies only) 10,000 subscriber license. 
Provides L3/L4 traffic classification, analytics 
data source, and allows up to 30 kbps per 
subscriber.

JSUB-100K

JSUB-1M

JSUB-VPN-20

JSUB-VPN-100

Junos Subscriber Aware policy enforcement 
(local policies only) 10,000 subscriber license. 
Provides L3/L4 traffic classification, analytics 
data source, and allows up to 30 kbps per 
subscriber.

Junos Subscriber Aware policy enforcement 
(local policies only) 10,000 subscriber license. 
Provides L3/L4 traffic classification, analytics 
data source, and allows up to 30 kbps per 
subscriber.

Junos Subscriber Aware policy enforcement 
(local policies only) 20 VRF license. Provides L3/
L4 traffic classification, analytics data source, 
and allows up to 30 kbps per subscriber.

Junos Subscriber Aware policy enforcement 
(local policies only) 100 VRF license. Provides 
L3/L4 traffic classification, analytics data source, 
and allows up to 30 kbps per subscriber.

Junos Application Aware
JAPAW-10K

Junos Application Aware 10,000 subscriber 
license. Identifies and classifies applications 
(VoIP, P2P, etc.) which match a signature 
database.

JAPAW-100K

JAPAW-1M

Junos Application Aware 10,000 subscriber 
license. Identifies and classifies applications 
(VoIP, P2P, etc.) which match a signature 
database.

Junos Application Aware 10,000 subscriber 
license. Identifies and classifies applications 
(VoIP, P2P, etc.) which match a signature 
database.

JAPAW-VPN-20

Junos Application Aware 20 VRF license 
restricted to a single chassis. Identifies and 
classifies applications (VoIP, P2P, etc.) which 
match a signature database.

JAPAW-VPN-100 Junos Application Aware 100 VRF license 

restricted to a single chassis. Identifies and 
classifies applications (VoIP, P2P, etc.) which 
match a signature database.

Junos Policy Control
JPC-10K

Junos Policy Control 10,000 subscriber license. 
Provides dynamic policy enforcement and online 
charging using Gx and Gy interfaces.

JPC-100K

JPC-1M

JPC-VPN-20

JPC-VPN-100

Junos Policy Control 100,000 subscriber license. 
Provides dynamic policy enforcement and online 
charging using Gx and Gy interfaces.

Junos Policy Control 1,000,000 subscriber 
license. Provides dynamic policy enforcement 
and online charging using Gx and Gy interfaces.

Junos Policy Control 20 VRF license restricted 
to a single chassis. Provides dynamic policy 
enforcement and online charging using Gx and 
Gy interfaces.

Junos Policy Control 100 VRF license restricted 
to a single chassis. Provides dynamic policy 
enforcement and online charging using Gx and 
Gy interfaces.

Junos Address Aware (Carrier-Grade NAT)
S-NAT-NPU

CGNAT software license based on a single NPU 
per MS-MIC, MS-DPC, or MS-MPC in MX Series 
routers.

Junos Network Secure (Stateful Firewall)
S-FW-NPU

Software license for stateful firewall on one NPU 
per MS-MIC, MS-DPC, or MS-MPC in MX Series 
routers.

Junos Traffic Vision (Flow Monitoring)
S-JFLOW-CH-
MX240

Chassis-based software license for inline flow 
monitoring on MX240 chassis.

S-JFLOW-CH-
MX480

S-JFLOW-CH-
MX960

S-JFLOW-NPU

Chassis-based software license for inline flow 
monitoring on MX480 chassis.

Chassis-based software license for inline flow 
monitoring on MX960 chassis.

Software license allows the end user to run flow 
monitoring on one NPU per MS-MIC, MS-DPC, or 
MS-MPC in MX Series routers.

Junos VPN Site Secure (Security Services)
S-ES-NPU

Security services (IPsec, VPN, and Group VPN) 
software license based on a single NPU for MS-
MIC, MS-DPC, or MS-MPC in MX Series routers.

Junos Video Focus (Inline Video Monitoring)
S-IVM-CH-
MX240

Chassis-based software license for inline video 
monitoring on MX240 chassis.

S-IVM-CH-
MX480

S-IVM-CH-
MX960

Chassis-based software license for inline video 
monitoring on MX480 chassis.

Chassis-based software license for inline video 
monitoring on MX960 chassis.

Junos Traffic Load Balancer
S-TLB-NPU

Load-balancing software license based on a 
single NPU for MS-MIC, MS-DPC, or MS-MPC in 
MX Series routers.

5

Data SheetService Control Gateway SolutionAbout Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2015 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetService Control Gateway Solution1000540-001-EN   July 2015