Juniper Identity Management Service

Product Overview

Juniper® Identity Management 
Service is a Windows-based 
application that links IP 
addresses to specific user 
identities, providing visibility 
into and control over network 
activity on a per-user basis. JIMS 
integrates directly with Active 
Directory servers to verify user-
to-IP address relationships and 
determine specific role and 
group assignments. This enables 
SRX Series Services Gateways 
to manage security policy 
decisions that directly associate 
application activity to user 
roles. Based on this information, 
the SRX Series firewall either 
permits or denies users access to 
applications and data based on 
detailed security policies.

 

Product Description 
User identity is a core requirement of next-generation firewalls, enabling administrators to 
create security policies that address business rather than networking needs. This creates 
a powerful mechanism for defining, managing, and refining security policies by creating 
firewall rules that are defined by user identity rather than IP address. 

On Juniper Networks® SRX Series Services Gateways, this capability is referred to as “user 
firewall,” where the SRX Series device will associate network traffic with specific user 
identities as defined by Active Directory. The SRX Series firewall typically performs a local 
lookup of the user-id associated with a specific IP address. 

The Juniper® Identity Management Service for Windows maintains a large database of 
active users and their associated IP addresses, enabling an SRX Series firewall to rapidly 
identify thousands of users in a large distributed enterprise. The SRX Series device simply 
queries the JIMS server, obtains the proper user-id relationship, and then enforces the 
appropriate security policy. Once applications, users, and groups are identified, JIMS 
provides full visibility into and control over the security infrastructure. 

SRX Series

Active Directory

JIMS

Internet

Client PC

Figure 1: JIMS resides on a Windows server, where it communicates with Active Directory 

servers and SRX Series Services Gateways.

Features and Benefits
The Juniper Identity Management Service has the following features:

User Identification 

JIMS connects to an Active Directory server to provide IP address-to-user name mappings and 
to collect user and device status for SRX Series firewalls. For user login events, JIMS collects 
domain and user names; for device login events, it collects domain and machine names. 

1

Data SheetPC Probing

JIMS initiates PC probes on devices to obtain the user name and 
domain of active users and to determine the device’s status after 
its logged-in state has expired. 

SRX Series Query Support

JIMS responds to individual HTTPS GET queries for IP addresses 
from SRX Series devices with the corresponding user names.

IP Address and User Group Filtering

JIMS provides the ability to include or exclude specified IP 
address ranges or Active Directory groups in the authentication 
tables of the SRX Series devices.

Status Monitoring and System Logging

JIMS provides detailed information related to Active Directory and 
SRX Series firewall connectivity state, sessions, records captured, 
and PC Probe counts. For troubleshooting purposes, JIMS 
produces system logs to record various events and activities.

Specifications
Platforms supported

vSRX, SRX300 line, SRX1500, 
SRX4100, SRX4200, SRX5000 line 
(15.1 release)
SRX650, SRX240H2, SRX3000 line, 
and SRX5000 line (12.3 release)

Supported software release

15.1X49 D100 and above
12.3X48 D45 and above

Maximum SRX Series device 
support 

Maximum Active Directory 
support 

Maximum domains 

100

100

25

Maximum user entries

250,000

Ordering Information
Juniper Identity Management Service is provided free of charge to 
customers with an active Juniper service contract. 

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks challenges the status quo with products, 
solutions and services that transform the economics of 
networking. Our team co-innovates with customers and partners 
to deliver automated, scalable and secure networks with agility, 
performance and value. Additional information can be found at 
Juniper Networks or connect with Juniper on Twitter and Facebook.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2017 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Juniper, and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice. APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetJuniper Identity Management Service1000618-001-EN  May 2017EXPLORE JUNIPERGet the App.