JuNOSPhERE ClOud

Product Overview

Juniper Networks Junosphere Cloud 
is a software-based service that 
allows networking professionals to 
perform network testing, design, and 
training exercises in a risk-free virtual 
environment that uses real network 
operating systems. Junosphere 
Cloud allows you to closely replicate 
physical networks consisting of Junos  
OS-based devices and ecosystem 
tools without the cost, complexity, 
or limitations of a physical lab. 
Junosphere Cloud provides the 
following benefits:

•  Flexibility—rapidly and dynamically 
change configurations and network 
designs

•  Scale—create networks of hundreds 

of nodes

•  Realism—run the same Junos OS 

found on Juniper hardware systems

•  Cost—reduce total cost of ownership 

by as much as 90%1

1ACG Research

Product Description 
Networking professionals across all industries share a common requirement for access 
to networking labs. Access to a lab environment where you can perform network testing, 
design, and training exercises independent of the production network is key to keeping 
your network running efficiently, planning new design implementations, and training or 
educating employees.

Yet due to the costs to acquire and operate lab equipment, many network labs are 
undersized and overutilized—if you are fortunate enough to be able to access a lab at 
all. Even in the largest organizations, capital and operational costs prevent network labs 
from achieving the same level of scale as the production network, making it difficult to 
accurately test new software releases, features, and upgrade procedures. 

Juniper Networks® Junosphere™ Cloud is Juniper’s unique solution to overcoming these 
challenges. Junosphere Cloud provides a cost-effective and flexible environment where 
you can create and run networks in a virtual environment. These networks can be used for 
the same exercises you perform today in your physical lab and more, including network 
design, modeling, troubleshooting, testing, and training.

Accessed on demand and hosted entirely in Juniper-operated datacenters, Junosphere 
Cloud requires no hardware—instead you only need a Web browser to access your 
networking lab. Networks created in Junosphere Cloud run the same Juniper Networks 
Junos® operating system that powers Juniper hardware systems, ensuring that results you 
see in Junosphere Cloud are consistent with real-world network behavior. And, because 
Junosphere provides complete design flexibility and nearly unlimited scale, it also enables 
you to perform network exercises and model scenarios that simply wouldn’t be feasible in 
a physical networking lab.

By moving your network testing, design, and training activities to the cloud, Junosphere 
Cloud can both help save costs and enhance capabilities. ACG Research estimates that, 
when compared to a physical networking lab, Junosphere Cloud can reduce total cost of 
ownership (TCO) by as much as 90%. Project times are estimated to improve by 30%—
which translates into increased productivity and more work done.
Architecture and Key Components
Junosphere Cloud is a commercial-grade software-as-a-service (SaaS) offering, with 
always-on availability, and it is fully supported by Juniper Networks Technical Assistance 
Center (JTAC). Junosphere Cloud resources are hosted in dedicated data centers 
owned and operated by Juniper Networks, and they leverage the latest in virtualization 
technologies. The components that make up Junosphere Cloud are described below. 

1

DATASHEETJunosphere User Interface
Access to the Junosphere environment is provided via a Web 
uI supported by popular Web browsers, available at www.
junosphere.net (purchase required to obtain username and 
password). 

The Junosphere user interface provides tools to manage your 
Junosphere accounts and resources, plan and design topologies, 
and run and access networks. The user interface provides visibility 
into your company’s available Junosphere time, and allows 
reservations to be made in real time or in advance. Within the user 
interface, you can save network topology files to public or private 
libraries for future use or to share with others in your organization. 
users can select which of these topology files they would like to 
launch and run. Once a topology has been launched, the routers or 
other virtual machines within that network can be configured and 
accessed exactly as if they were a real router, using tools such as 
the Junos OS command-line interface (ClI) or Juniper Networks 
Junos Space.
Topology Wizard
A key feature of the Junosphere uI is a graphical network design 
tool referred to as Topology Wizard. The Topology Wizard makes 
it easy to create new topologies from scratch with a simple drag-
and-drop design. The Topology Wizard also enables customized 
configurations to be preloaded to each virtual router as the 
network is built out.

Junos Network Elements
Junosphere Cloud gives you access to virtual machines running 
the same Junos operating system deployed on Juniper’s physical 
routing devices. These virtual routers deliver the software 
functionality of Juniper routers such as ClIs, control plane 
behavior, protocol operation, and most forwarding functions. 
Junosphere provides virtual routers that support Junos OS routing 
and security functionalities. The environment is constantly being 
broadened to replicate an expanded set of features from specific 
Juniper router platforms. For a complete list of supported images, 
please refer to www.juniper.net/junosphere.

Junos Space
Junos Space network element management applications can 
be used within the Junosphere Cloud environment to provision, 
monitor, and configure Junos OS network elements within the 
virtual network you create. By providing trainees with access 
to Junos Space, Junosphere exposes them to next-generation 
network orchestration tools.

Junosphere Connector
Junosphere Connector is an optional capability that allows 
the virtual networking resources of Junosphere to interoperate 
directly with a physical network. It creates a complementary 
and efficient virtual extension of an existing physical lab, 
allowing customers to create large-scale networks that support 
multivendor environments and enable interoperability, scalability, 
and convergence testing at realistic scale. The ability to connect 
multiple physical and virtual topologies is a powerful tool for 
modeling carrier-class networks and assessing the impact of 
topology changes, upgrade and downgrade procedures, or new 
network and service buildouts.

Ecosystem Partner Applications
To provide a complete modeling environment, Junosphere Cloud 
supports an ecosystem of products and applications from key 
partners. For a complete listing of applications included within 
Junosphere Cloud, please visit www.juniper.net/junosphere.

Figure 1: Junosphere Cloud’s Topology Wizard makes it easy to 

custom design your own network topologies.

Virtual Machine Manager
Virtual Machine Manager (VMM) is the Juniper developed 
hypervisor super layer that is key to enabling Junosphere  Cloud. 
unlike traditional cloud environments, Junosphere was built as 
a virtual networking environment, and networking environments 
have different requirements than traditional cloud architectures 
that focus on compute or storage tasks. The VMM enables 
connectivity between nodes to forward packets in a manner 
consistent with physical networks. 

User Interface

Secure access via web
browser and ﬁle transfer

Customer A

SSL VPN

Customer B

Customer Isolation
Independent, secure cloud

silo for each customer

Junosphere Connector

Secure tunnel to physical

customer network

Figure 2: Junosphere Cloud architecture and components

2

Junosphere Cloud Services 
Junosphere Cloud is offered as a service available with flexible, pay-
as-you-go based purchasing options, or as a simple Annual Plan 
for more frequent Junosphere users.  The on-demand Junosphere 
services are offered a-la-carte as Junosphere lab and Classroom, 
for their respespective user communities.

The Junosphere Annual Pass facilitates budget planning by 
providing always-on Junosphere capacity for an entire year. 
Operators have maximum control of capacity pools assigned to 
diverse teams and projects. The bank administrator can customize 
the minimum guaranteed capacity for each sandbox to ensure 

baseline availability, and also the maximum utilization of VM units 
in each sandbox to prevent unauthorized abuse of consumption.

The flexible capacity allocation system available with the Annual 
Plan maximizes the usage of available VM units shifting capacity 
from inactive sandboxes to those which experience temporary 
spikes of demand. These allocation algorithms ensure best 
usage of the capacity pool at every moment providing excellent 
granularity management.

Additionally, all the Annual Passes provide a la carte overflow 
capacity. The 50 and 100 Annual Passes also include unlimited 
connector capacity.

Features and Benefits
Table 1. Junosphere Features and Benefits Summary

Feature
Commercial SaaS platform

Efficient scale

Flexible cost structure

Real operating systems 

Flexible network design options 

Flexibility and agility

Feature Description
Junosphere Cloud delivers the confidence that comes 
with a service that is available 24/7/365 and fully 
backed by JTAC.

Benefit
• 
•  Maximum uptime and availability.

Increased confidence in your results.

Cost advantage of virtual machines enables larger scale 
networking resources.

•  Reduce student-to-equipment ratio.
•  Build more accurate networks and topologies.

Range of subscription based annual plans and on-
demand payment options enable you optimize costs for 
your unique requirements.

•  Rapidly and quickly scale up or down with demand-

based capacity.

•  Annual Plans provide convenience and benefits for 

heavy Junosphere users.

Junosphere Cloud gives you access to the same full 
featured Junos OS running in thousands of commercial 
networks—not a simulation.

•  Provide real hands-on experience with the latest 

networking technology.

•  Accurately replicate commercial networks.

Junosphere Cloud offers a variety of options for 
network topology design, including importing from a 
live network, a graphical design wizard, and text-based 
configurations. 

•  Quickly and easily get started on Junosphere.
•  Try new designs and make modifications with total 

flexibility.

Virtual resources can be modified, ordered, and 
implemented much more quickly than on physical 
networks. 

•  Quickly adapt and perform varied design and testing 

exercises.

•  Speed project time by as much as 30%.

Interoperability and integration

Junosphere Connector enables your virtual resources to 
interoperate with real-world networks.

•  Enjoy enhanced collaboration opportunities.
•  Enable broader set of experiments and modeling 

Complete lab ecosystem

Junosphere Cloud provides access to a variety of partner 
tools, in addition to Junos OS network elements

exercises for students. 

•  Planning and analysis tools give you the same 

visibility into Junosphere network you get in the real 
world.

•  Performance testing applications enable you to 

stress test your Junosphere networks.

Specifications
Table 2. User Interface Compatible Platforms

Platform
Windows 

Mac 

linux 

Operating System
•  Vista with Service Pack 1 or 2 on 32-bit or 64-bit platforms 
•  Windows 7 on 32-bit or 64-bit platforms 
•  XP Professional SP3 on 32-bit or 64-bit platforms 
•  XP home Edition SP3 

Internet Explorer 9 and up 

Browsers and Java Environment
• 
•  Firefox 19 and up
•  Java 7 update 21

•  Mac OS X 10.6, 32-bit and 64-bit 
•  Mac OS X 10.5.x, 32-bit and 64-bit

•  openSuSE 10.x and 11.x, 32-bit only 
•  ubuntu 9.10 and 10.x, 32-bit only 
•  Red hat Enterprise linux 5, 32-bit only 

•  FireFox 19 and up
•  Java 7 update 21

•  Firefox 19 and up 
•  Java 7 update 21 

3

Client Hardware Recommendations
•  CPu: 1 Ghz or higher is recommended for Windows; for Mac, 1 Ghz 

G4 or Intel processor is recommended. 

•  Memory: Minimum of 256 MB of available RAM is recommended. 
•  Color quality: For best results, use 16-bit (8-bit, 24-bit, and 32-bit 

Model Number
JuS-ANNuAl-PASS-10

JuS-ANNuAl-PASS-50

are also supported). 

•  Monitor resolutions: 1,024 x 768 pixels is recommended; up to 

2,048 x 2,048 pixels is supported. 

JuS-ANNuAl-PASS-100

Description
Junosphere Annual Plan providing 10 VM 
units available at any time, and 200 VM 
units of “overflow” capacity

Junosphere Annual Plan providing 50 
VM units available at any time, 1000 VM 
units of “overflow” capacity, and unlimited 
Connectors

Junosphere Annual Plan providing 100 
VM units available at any time, 2000 VM 
units of “overflow” capacity, and unlimited 
Connectors

JuS-lAB-10VM-1

10 Junosphere lab VM units

JuS-lAB-10VM-30

300 Junosphere lab VM units

JuS-ClASS-10VM-1

10 Junosphere Classroom VM units

JuS-ClASS-10VM-30

300 Junosphere Classroom VM units

JuS-CONNECT-1

JuS-CONNECT-30

Ability to connect virtual and physical lab 
network environments, and transfer data 
at the rate of 1 Mbps to the virtual network 
topology for one day

Ability to connect virtual and physical lab 
network environments, and transfer data 
at the rate of 1 Mbps to the virtual network 
topology for 30 days

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, and 
availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/en/
products-services. 

Ordering Information
Junosphere offers a range of flexible purchase options, ranging 
from always available Annual Plans to Regular Capacity which can 
be purchased as needed. Both the Annual Plans and the Regular 
Capacity are based on the concept of a virtual machine unit (VM 
unit). A single VM unit allows you to run the basic images available 
within Junosphere for a period of 24 hours. More advanced images 
may require using more than one VM unit. 

Annual Plans provide guaranteed access to the purchased virtual 
machines available in 10, 50 and 100 unit increments every day for 
1 year and are ideal for large organizations and heavy Junosphere 
users. Additional overflow capacity is also included and can be 
used when requirements exceed the guaranteed access number of 
VMs.  Annual Plans also include unlimited Junosphere Connectors 
to allow for connectivity between the virtual and a physical 
environment.  This plan maximizes the efficiency of capacity 
usage by enabling capacity to be shifted from idle sandboxes to 
those which need it at any given time. The Annual Plan capacity 
can be flexibly distributed among different groups.  

Regular Capacity provides a pay-per-use option where once 
purchased in this manner, VM units are consumed only when 
you launch and run an active network topology. For example, 
launching a five node network and allowing it to run for two days 
(48 hours) would consume 10 VM units. designing networks using 
the Topology Wizard does not consume any VM units, and can be 
done independent of running an active topology.

Corporate and Sales Headquarters
Juniper Networks, Inc.  
1194 North Mathilda Avenue 
Sunnyvale, CA 94089 uSA 
Phone: 888.JuNIPER (888.586.4737) 
or 408.745.2000 
Fax: 408.745.2100 
www.juniper.net

APAC and EMEA Headquarters
Juniper Networks International B.V. 
Boeing Avenue 240 
1119 PZ Schiphol-Rijk 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
Phone: 31.0.207.125.700 
Fax: 31.0.207.125.701

Copyright 2013 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos, 
NetScreen, and ScreenOS are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the united States and other 
countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of 
their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper 
Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.

1000376-004-EN    May 2013

 Printed on recycled paper

4

To purchase Juniper Networks solutions, 
please contact your Juniper Networks 
representative at 1-866-298-6428 or  
authorized reseller.

