Junos Space Connectivity 
Services Director

Product Overview

Service providers and enterprises 
must be able to rapidly 
provision and offer new MPLS 
and Carrier Ethernet services 
across their networks. In order 
to reduce operational costs and 
enable quick service rollouts, 
these network operators need 
an intelligent provisioning 
application that facilitates 
the design, deployment and 
management of services.

Junos Space Connectivity 
Services Director facilitates 
lifecycle management of 
connectivity services such as 
L2VPN and L3VPN services, QoS 
profile configuration, service 
performance validation and 
monitoring, and synchronization 
management. In addition to an 
intuitive graphical user interface, 
the application also supports a 
rich set of API functions to enable 
northbound integration and 
service orchestration with other 
OSS platforms.

Junos Space Network Management 
Junos Space Connectivity Services Director is part of Junos Space, a comprehensive 
network management solution that simplifies management of Juniper’s switching, routing, 
and security devices. Junos Space is a critical component of Juniper’s SDN strategy as it 
provides a centralized management plane with a single point-of-access into the network 
and a common management platform for managing and creating applications to meet 
your specific needs. With Junos Space, you can simplify and automate the network, 
improve network agility, and deliver new services quickly, all from a single console. Junos 
Space is composed of the following software elements:

•  Junos Space Network Management Platform: Provides comprehensive FCAPS and 

element management of Juniper devices which improves operator efficiencies, 
providing a programmable interface and exposable APIs that enable the development 
and integration of third-party applications.

•  Junos Space Management Applications: Plug-and-play, domain-specific applications 

to help you provision new services and optimize workflow tasks across thousands of 
Juniper devices.

While the Junos Space Network Management Platform offers broad fault, configuration, 
and device provisioning capabilities with a task-specific user interface, Junos Space 
Management Applications extend the breadth of the platform to optimize network 
management for various domains. The Connectivity Services Director application runs on 
the Junos Space platform, where it enables users to automate the end-to-end provisioning 
of new services across thousands of devices with a simple point-and-click GUI, and to 
optimize management for specific domains such as core, edge, access and aggregation, 
data center, WAN, and campus and branch.

Junos Space Connectivity Services Director  
Product Description 
Companies that offer MPLS and Carrier Ethernet services face common business 
challenges such as controlling capital and operating expenses, accelerating time to market 
and increasing customer satisfaction. At the same time, these companies also have to deal 
with technical challenges such as:

•  Provisioning a customer service rapidly and accurately

•  Scaling to keep up with customer demand

•  Tracking site-specific quality of service (QoS) 

•  Troubleshooting and pinpointing problems in the network

Your ideas. Connected.™

1

Data SheetResource

Management

Device and

services inventory

Service Design

Pre-deﬁned and 
custom templates

for services

Service

Provisioning

Rapid provisioning

of services

Validation and
Troubleshooting
Network performance

and SLA assurance

Figure 1: Junos Space Connectivity Services Director Functions

Junos Space Connectivity Services Director allows service providers 
and enterprises to rapidly enable new service offerings. It facilitates 
an automated and streamlined approach to the service design and 
provisioning process and helps reduce fallout from misconfigured 
customer services, thereby increasing customer satisfaction and 
retention. Besides automating key provisioning tasks, Junos Space 
Connectivity Services Director also provides a complete network 
management solution, including automated service discovery, 
MPLS resource management, point-and-click service provisioning, 
validation, and troubleshooting for legacy ATM/TDM, MPLS and 
Carrier Ethernet environments. 

The Junos Space Connectivity Services Director essentially manages 
the lifecycle of L2 and L3 services comprised of resource pool 
management, service design and provisioning, troubleshooting and 
performance monitoring, and service decommissioning. The high-
level capabilities of the product include:

•  Automating the design, activation, and validation of  
the provisioning process for L2 and L3 VPNs across  
ATM/TDM, MPLS and Carrier Ethernet networks, enabling 
service providers to efficiently and cost-effectively manage 
deployments while reducing fallout from misconfigured 
services.

•  Designing, provisioning and activation of RSVP-signaled 

label-switched paths (LSPs), as well as static LSPs, which 
can be configured as end-to-end, P2P, P2MP or full mesh.

•  Monitoring faults and performance of VPN services using 

standards-based protocols and technologies such as 
Ethernet Connectivity Fault Management (CFM), Ethernet 
link-level fault detection and management, and Bidirectional 
Forward Detection (BFD).

•  Provisioning synchronization interfaces such as IEEE1588-

2008(PTP) and Synchronous Ethernet (SyncE).

The Junos Space Network Management Platform and Junos 
Space Connectivity Services Director are all accessible through a 
northbound Representational State Transfer (REST)-based API. 
This enables network providers to tap into the rich functionality 
of Junos Space and build native applications on their Operations/
Business Support Systems (OSS/BSS) as they begin to embrace 
SDN architectures in their networks.

The Junos Space Network Management Platform infrastructure 
provides the basic capabilities for device management and 
system administration, such as:

•  Device discovery

•  Device image management

•  Device inventory management

•  Script management

•  Log files management 

•  User and security administration

•  Fault management

• 

 Performance management

In addition to these basic functions, the Junos Space Network 
Management Platform facilitates a multi-tenant, plug-and-play 
application environment that enables fast start up and in-service 
device upgrades.

Rapid Device Discovery
The Junos Space Network Management Platform uses a variety 
of methods to discover network devices and bring them under 
management. Once the devices are under management, the 
Junos Space platform collects the entire physical inventory of 
these network elements and maintains a centralized repository of 
real-time information about each device, such as:

•  List of line cards (FPC) 

• 

Interface cards (PIC)

•  Serial number for each chassis component

•  Juniper Networks Junos OS version 

•  Operational, administrative state, speed/duplex of  

the interfaces

•  Chassis type

Device Pre-Staging
Once devices have been discovered, pre-staging takes the 
devices already under Junos Space management and prepares 
them for service activation. Connectivity Services Director 
automatically detects the MPLS roles and the corresponding 
UNIs of discovered devices. The pre-staging process discovers 
network provider edge (N-PE) devices in the Junos Space 
database and assigns roles to those devices and their interfaces. 
This simplifies the service provisioning task, because only 
qualified devices are allowed to be selected for services.

2

Data SheetJunos Space Connectivity Services DirectorAutomated MPLS Resource Management
Deploying Carrier Ethernet services requires multiple network 
resources to be allocated and tracked per customer site. The 
most common network resources are VLAN ID, Virtual Circuit 
(VC) ID, route targets, and route distinguishers. In the case of 
VLAN IDs, these are usually allocated per customer-facing 
interface. When a service provider is potentially handling 
hundreds of customers, each being provisioned hundreds 
of services, tracking network resources can quickly become 
unmanageable and unscalable—particularly when the resources 
are tracked manually. For example, consider a scenario where a 
customer is experiencing loss of packets from one site to another. 
How quickly can a help desk operator troubleshoot the problem 
to help this customer? 

Connectivity Services Director provides automated MPLS 
resource management. It auto allocates VLAN IDs to the UNIs, 
VC IDs and IPV4 addresses, and it tracks used resources. This not 
only minimizes user input during provisioning but also guarantees 
that the service provisioning pushed to the devices does not 
conflict with existing resources on the network.

Rapid Service Design
Predefined service definitions in Connectivity Services Director 
capture Juniper best practices for standard services in terms 
of the options selected, prefilled values for attributes such as 
bandwidth and more. Privileged users can create custom service 
definitions for non-standard network configurations.

Figure 2: Predefined Service Definitions

Juniper-recommended configurations for various service types 
include the following:

•  P2P E-LINE service

•  Full mesh and hub-and-spoke VPLS service

•  Full mesh and hub-and-spoke L3VPN service

Automated Service Provisioning
Seventy-five percent of network outages are due to human error, 
such as misconfiguration when changing an existing customer 
configuration. Imagine that you have to activate a 20-site virtual 
private LAN service (VPLS) for a customer. How do you get 
started? Start a spreadsheet and keep track of the endpoints, 
PE routers, interfaces, VLANs per interfaces, route targets, 

route distinguishers, and other MPLS resources? You start by 
configuring the first site with great attention to detail, update 
your spreadsheet or piece of paper, and slowly make your way to 
the twentieth site by the end of the week. Now, how do you know 
that the VPLS for the twentieth site is working? You need to go 
site by site and verify that you have reachability to all remote 
sites, issuing 20x19 pings. 

What happens when you lose the spreadsheet that contains all 
of the information for this customer VPN? What do you do if you 
need to add a twenty-first site to this VPN and verify that this 
new site is working with the 20 preceding sites?

Connectivity Services Director provides a simple GUI-based 
provisioning tool that allows the operator to easily select the 
endpoints for activating a customer’s multisite VPN. It also 
provides pre-validation before applying a VPN configuration to 
target devices, verifying that there are no collisions with existing 
configurations on the target devices and ensuring that set of 
network parameters ultimately works and renders the VPN 
connection functional.

Connectivity Services Director also facilitates bulk provisioning of 
pseudowires for mobile backhaul deployments. This capability 
greatly simplifies provisioning of thousands of cell sites 
simultaneously with a configuration that is somewhat similar. 
Connectivity Services Director helps to design, provision, and 
activate RSVP signaled label-switched paths (LSPs), as well as 
static LSPs. These LSPs can be configured as P2P, P2MP or full 
mesh LSPs. 

Automated MPLS Service Validation and 
Troubleshooting
Generating an accurate configuration and applying that 
configuration is the first step. But ensuring that the service is 
operational is an additional step that Connectivity Services 
Director provides. Verifying that the control plane and data 
plane are functional guarantees the VPN service is actually up 
and running. 

The real value of Junos Space Connectivity Services Director 
comes when the number of VPN sites is large. The application 
detects all of the sites in a VPN and is able to verify that the 
label-switched paths (LSPs) are operational on all sites—issuing 
a full-mesh MPLS Operation, Administration, and Maintenance 
(OAM) verification to validate that the data plane is operational. 

If one or more sites are not reachable, the operator is 
immediately alerted to the broken sites with a detailed analysis 
of the failure conditions. 

Connectivity Services Director—with its built-in auto-discovery 
(AD), resource management capabilities and service design—
allows service providers to quickly start offering Carrier Ethernet 
services in a very cost-effective manner. 

3

Data SheetJunos Space Connectivity Services DirectorConnectivity Services Director provides the following benefits: 

•  Removal of all possible manual configuration errors

•  One centralized location for all L2VPN and L3VPN services 

Data plane validation is one last step that leverages exiting MPLS 
OAM pings to ensure that the data plane is indeed working. The 
Connectivity Services Director application provides the following 
monitoring capabilities:

•  Reduced mean time to recovery (MTTR) when 

troubleshooting customer connectivity issues

Synchronization Management
Junos Space Connectivity Services Director includes an 
optional component that manages synchronization devices 
such as Juniper’s TCA Series Timing Appliances as well as 
synchronization subsystems within other Juniper devices that 
support the IEEE 1588-2008 standard—commonly known as 
Precision Time Protocol, or PTP. In addition to managing device 
level synchronization attributes, Connectivity Services Director 
also manages logical timing entities or domains that comprise 
groups of devices or subsystems. Users can create timing 
domains, assign various synchronization devices and subsystems 
to a domain and then apply a specific timing service template 
to each domain. Connectivity Services Director scans through 
the devices in the timing domain and performs configuration 
operations one-by-one based on the service template, thus 
automating and greatly simplifying the configuration process. 

Connectivity Services Director provides configuration management, 
health monitoring and discovery of synchronization devices.

Service Validation and SLA Monitoring
After a service has been provisioned, the service provider must be 
able to monitor the service in order to guarantee SLAs. Monitoring 
involves checking end-to-end path connectivity of the control 
plane and data plane. Control plane validation involves verifying 
that the MPLS edge routers have indeed established logical 
connections. For E-LINE LDP and BGP, LSPs have to be peered, 
and pseudowires from both PE routers have to be operationally in 
“up” status. For VPLS multipoint-to-multipoint, each site/leg has 
to have all the configured LSPs operationally “up.” 

•  Connectivity Fault Management (CFM) configuration at the 

port and interface level

•  Service level CFM for P2P (E-Line) and VPLS (E-LAN) 

services

•  Support for Y.1731 based one-way and two-way 

measurements for frame delay, frame delay variation, frame 
loss and service availability

Connectivity Services Director enables users to set up CFM 
flows between service endpoints in order to monitor the end-
to-end service using Y.1731 frames. Users can choose to gather 
performance data on demand, or create SLA Iterators and assign 
them to a service in order to periodically measure the data. In 
addition to these iterators, users can also associate an Action 
Profile with a service to describe actions that must be performed 
when connectivity problems are detected with the service.

Figure 4: Performance data collected through OAM flows

Figure 3: SLA Iterator profile

4

Data SheetJunos Space Connectivity Services DirectorFeatures and Benefits

Feature

Feature Description

Benefits

Reliable and scalable 
architecture

Auto-discovery (AD) and 
inventory of network devices

Automated MPLS 
and network resource 
management

•  The Junos Space Connectivity Services Director runs 

on a distributed and scalable architecture. 
•  The Junos Space fabric can be expanded 

organically, as administrators can simply add nodes 
to increase scalability. 

•  Allows for a resilient application infrastructure.
•  Allows for expansion of the application 

infrastructure with the growth of the number of 
devices, number of GUI operators and northbound 
operations support systems (OSS) clients. 

•  Users can monitor the health of the fabric, 

•  Enables geographically distributed data centers to 

and adjust node membership, as needed. The 
application automatically load-balances the 
processing across any new nodes as required. 

operate on the same Junos Space fabric. In case 
one data center is not operational, the secondary 
data center can still provide full management 
capability to continue operations. 

•  Using IP address range, IP subnet and hostname, 

•  Provides a complete and accurate device inventory 

Connectivity Services Director is able to connect to 
and bring in the complete physical inventory of the 
managed devices.

•  Extends network discovery to MPLS VPN roles 

• 

of line cards, PICs, interfaces, Junos OS version, 
chassis type, and serial number that is accessible in 
one single place. 
Improved pseudowire support is available.

including ATM and OCx.

•  Leveraging Juniper best practices, there is a set 
of predefined network signature rules that help 
with the MPLS role, UNI, NNI, and VLAN ID pools 
assignment. 

•  Once these rules are applied to the discovered 

network devices, automatic role assignment, UNI 
selection and corresponding VLAN ID tagging occur. 

•  When configuring carrier Ethernet services, a large 
number of network resources typically need to be 
allocated and tracked for a given MPLS service.

•  Provisioning Ethernet services at scale becomes 

fast and efficient by automating network resource 
allocation.

Service design

•  Leveraging Juniper MPLS best practices, 

Connectivity Services Director has predefined 
service offering designs for E-LINE and ELAN-VPLS 
services. Service designers can further customize a 
carrier’s predefined service offering designs.

•  Time to market is shortened, providing a turnkey 

service model that can be leveraged rapidly. 

•  Custom service definitions allow for flexibility in 

service provisioning.

Multihoming

•  VPLS multihoming connects a customer site to 

•  Redundant connectivity is provided in the event of 

multiple PE routers.

Point-and-click provisioning

•  Simple point-and-click provisioning allows the 

operator to easily select the endpoints for activating 
a customer VPN. 

•  MPLS services supported are carrier Ethernet 

E-LINE and ELAN-VPLS.

a PE router-to-CE device link failure or the failure of 
a PE router.

•  Removes all possible manual configuration errors.
•  Provides one centralized location to track all 

customer VPN services (E-LINE, ELAN-VPLS). 

•  Reduces MTTR when troubleshooting customer 

connectivity issues.

Configuration pre-validation 

•  Before deploying carrier Ethernet services, pre-
validation is done to determine if there are any 
conflicts with selected network parameters in the 
network—VLAN IDs, VC ID, Route Targets (RTs) 
collision, uniqueness of Route Distinguisher (RD).

•  All of these network pre-validations provide a 

certain level of assurance that the service intended 
by the operator has no conflicts and is configured 
correctly without errors.

Configuration post-validation

•  Connectivity Services Director validates at a 

•  Ensures that the service configurations are present 

configuration level to determine if the intended 
configurations are present on all targeted devices.

as intended by the operator.

Operational validation

• 

In order to ensure that carrier Ethernet services are 
operational, two validation levels are executed—
control plane and data plane validations.

•  Provides the operator with a clear assurance that 

carrier Ethernet services are indeed working.

Create, Read, Update, and 
Delete (CRUD) functionality

•  CRUD is applied to resource management for MPLS 

•  Customers can easily assign IP address selections, 

VPN service deployment. 
IP address pool handling is available.

• 
•  Provides automation of attributes such as AS#, RD 

pools.

reducing multiple manual steps.
Improves handling of additional L3VPN attributes.

• 

Synchronization management 
(option)

•  Connectivity Services Director allows configuration 
of PTP and SyncE interfaces across Juniper devices.

•  Network-wide consistency in management of 

synchronization—a critical requirement for 3G/4G/
LTE networks.

Performance monitoring

•  Connectivity Services Director facilitates fault 

•  Provides early warning about network problems 

monitoring of ports, interfaces and services and 
provides network performance data.

and allows service providers to meet SLAs.

OSS/BSS integration (option)

•  Connectivity Services Director provides REST API for 

•  Simple interface to achieve platform extensibility, 

northbound OSS/BSS to access the applications 
and orchestrate other services.

multivendor support and service orchestration.

5

Data SheetJunos Space Connectivity Services DirectorTable1: Supported Platforms and the Software Versions for Connectivity Services Director

Supported Platforms

Qualified Junos OS Release

ACX Series Universal Access Routers:

•  ACX500 router
•  ACX1000 router
•  ACX1100 router
•  ACX2000 router
•  ACX2100 router
•  ACX2200 router
•  ACX4000 router
•  ACX5000 router (ACX5048 and ACX5096)
•  ACX500 router

MX Series 3D Universal Edge Routers

M Series Multiservice Edge Routers

PTX Series Packet Transport Router

Release 12.3R1 through Release 12.3X54-D10 for ACX1000, ACX1100, ACX2000, ACX2100, 
ACX2200, and ACX4000 routers
Release 15.1X54-D20 for ACX5000 routers
Release 12.3X54-D20 for ACX500 routers

Release 12.2R1 through Release 15.1R1 for MX80, MX104, MX240, MX480, and  
MX960 routers
Release 13.3R1 through Release 15.1R1 for MX2010 and MX2020 routers

Release 10.0 through Release 12.2R1.8 for M320 router
Release 10.0 through Release 14.2R1.12 for M7i and M10i routers

Release 13.2R2.2 for PTX3000 router
Release 13.2R1.7 for PTX5000 router

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2015 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetJunos Space Connectivity Services Director1000530-002-EN   Sept 2015