Sky ATP JumpStart

Service Overview 

Sky Advanced Threat Prevention 
keeps the network free of 
sophisticated cyberattacks with 
superior cloud-based protection 
that includes monitoring ingress 
and egress traffic for malware 
and indicators of compromise.

The Sky ATP JumpStart service is 
part of an overall set of services 
designed to enable the rapid 
adoption and use of Juniper’s 
core software products. Upon 
completion of the service, you will 
have implemented a ready-to-use 
Sky Advanced Threat Prevention 
solution with expert knowledge 
transfer, enabling your operations 
teams to optimize its core value in 
your given environment. 

Service Description
Deploying new, cutting-edge technologies and products can be challenging, given the 
varying degrees of complexity inherent in a continuously evolving environment.

In addition, operations and engineering teams are under tremendous pressure to quickly 
deliver results and secure the enterprise. They are expected to gain the necessary 
expertise and perform initial deployments and validation within a very short timescale, 
and the learning curve is typically very steep. 

The Juniper Networks® Sky ATP JumpStart service is ideally positioned to relieve the 
initial implementation and configuration burden on operations and engineering teams, 
while determining whether any additional steps are required to deploy the solution in a 
production environment.

The service is performed by a highly skilled Juniper Networks Professional Services 
consultant as part of a combined remote and onsite delivery. Depending on your 
organization’s needs and level of expertise, the JumpStart service should be sufficient; 
for more complex implementations, additional services can be purchased based on your 
specific needs and operational environment.

The JumpStart service is based on a Juniper Networks Sky Advanced Threat Prevention 
standard implementation delivered by a Professional Services consultant following the 
Best Practices Playbook approach for consistency. The best practices are based on 
extensive deployment experience and expertise derived across customer deployments of 
all shapes and sizes.

The core of the service is an Implementation phase based on an initial prequalification 
activity to determine the necessary installation and configuration parameters required for 
deployment. This information is captured in an Implementation Plan and approved by key 
stakeholders prior to deployment and verification in your production environment.

Knowledge Transfer and Post-Installation Support are included to ensure that there are no 
outstanding issues and the transfer to your organization goes smoothly.

Juniper’s Professional Services consultants have vast experience in customer and best-
practice implementation services that can save your operation and engineering teams 
time and effort, allowing them to focus on their key responsibilities.

The JumpStart service consists of three main phases: Implementation, Knowledge 
Transfer, and Post-Installation Support. Typical durations for each phase in the Sky ATP 
JumpStart service are shown in Figure 1.

1

Data SheetImplementation

Knowledge

Transfer

*Post-Installation

Support

*Prequaliﬁcation

Deployment and

Veriﬁcation

*Implementation Plan

1 Week

*Created or delivered remotely

Up to 2 days

(over a period of 15 days)

Table 1: Description of JumpStart Service Phases

Figure 1. JumpStart delivery process

Phase

Implementation

Description

The Implementation phase consists of the following key activities:
•  Prequalification: Prequalification is a remote task designed to gain key deployment and configuration 

• 

parameters as well as details specific to the customer’s environment necessary for the implementation.
Implementation Plan: The Implementation Plan is executed remotely based on input from the 
prequalification activity and is used in deployment and verification execution.

•  Deployment and Verification: Deployment provides an onsite installation of Sky ATP based on the 

Implementation Plan. Installation is performed by a Juniper Professional Services consultant, followed 
by onsite verification that everything is working properly.

Knowledge Transfer

•  Knowledge Transfer takes place throughout the onsite engagement with the appropriate end-

user personnel, delivering maximum value where there is continuous participation by the end user 
(operations and engineering). This phase covers exactly how the solution has been installed and 
configured in the customer environment, and how it can be extended further.

Post-Installation Support

•  This phase provides up to two days of Post-Installation Support by the Juniper PS consultant over a 

period of 15 days, giving customers a safety net as they accept the solution into operational use.

Features and Benefits
1.  Juniper Networks Professional Services expertise in Sky 

Scope and Available Services
Table 2: JumpStart Services and Scope

ATP: The Sky ATP JumpStart service includes Best Practice 
Implementation, Knowledge Transfer, and Post-Installation 
Support, all based on multiple customer deployments and 
reference architectures that help you understand Sky ATP faster.

2. Fast route to empower stakeholder knowledge acquisition 

and adoption: Sky ATP Knowledge Transfer and Post- 
Installation Support empower key stakeholders such as 
architects, product managers, IT, operations, and network 
design teams to quickly understand Sky ATP and streamline 
operational adoption.

3. Fast route to enable integration and expansion: The rapid 

deployment of Sky ATP provides a solution platform that can 
be further integrated, configured, or expanded to extend the 
network. This work can be performed either by the customer or 
through additional services from Juniper Networks.

The Sky ATP JumpStart service helps customers realize the 
following benefits:

•  Speed time to value

•  Minimize risk

•  Streamline operations

Services

Scope

Post-Installation 
Support

This service is based on the latest relevant 
release of the Juniper Networks SRX Series 
Services Gateways and Junos® operating system. 
It provides for integration of a single logical 
appliance with Sky ATP cloud service to provide 
advanced malware protection. 

The JumpStart service enables the rapid deployment and 
adoption of an initial Sky ATP implementation. For more complex 
environments, an Assessment service is offered that will help 
customers determine up front the best deployment path for their 
specific needs, which in turn may lead to JumpStart services. In 
cases where there is a need for additional customization with 
broader implementation and integration requirements for the 
target environment, the Assessment service may lead to more 
specialized Implementation services.

Juniper Networks Service and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your high-
performance network. Our services allow customers to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services.

2

Data SheetSky ATP JumpStarte
c

i

v
r
e
S

Quicker time to value
You can get the solution implemented quickly and begin 
reaping the beneﬁts without exhausting your budget or 
personnel resources.

Beneﬁts of Using

Juniper

Professional Services for

Sky Advanced

Threat Prevention

Streamline operations

Because Juniper Professional Services does the heavy li(cid:129)ing 
to implement the solution, you increase operational e(cid:143)ciency 
and reduce overall OpEx, freeing your sta  to focus on core IT 
and network functions that provide business value.

Minimize risk

Managing the deployment requires solid planning and the application of 
industry best practices to ensure that the project progresses smoothly. 
Based on years of experience, the Juniper Project Management Methodology 
(JPMM) provides a foundation for managing and controlling of projects as 
well as a process for identifying and mitigating risk.

Figure 2. JumpStart service benefits

Ordering Information
Juniper Networks Professional Services are available worldwide as 
part of a broad range of engagements. In addition to customized 
engagements, examples of predefined engagements and their 
descriptions can be found at www.juniper.net/us/en/products-
services/services/technical-services/professional-services/. 

Please contact your Juniper Networks account manager for 
additional information or to find out how Juniper Networks can 
help you address your business and technology challenges.

Product Number

Description

PRO-ATP-JS 

Sky ATP JumpStart service based on 
standard Sky ATP Professional Services 
reference architecture

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks challenges the status quo with products, 
solutions and services that transform the economics of 
networking. Our team co-innovates with customers and partners 
to deliver automated, scalable and secure networks with agility, 
performance and value. Additional information can be found at 
Juniper Networks or connect with Juniper on Twitter and Facebook.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2017 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetSky ATP JumpStart1000609-002-EN   Mar 2017EXPLORE JUNIPERGet the App.