Junos Video Focus

Product Overview

Delivering video over carrier-scale 
IP networks is complicated, and 
network issues can easily diminish 
a consumer’s video experience. 
While network operators use 
specialized appliances to monitor 
video quality, this approach 
is expensive to deploy, and 
manually intensive to operate.   

Juniper Networks overcomes the 
limitations of traditional video 
monitoring approaches with Junos 
Video Focus, a standards-based 
solution that fully integrates with 
the MX Series 3D and Junos OS. 
This innovative solution provides 
the scale and automation needed 
to cost-effectively identify and 
avoid network issues before they 
impact the customer’s viewing 
experience. 

Product Description 
Delivering managed video over an IP network is quite complex—encoders are used to format, 
compress, and packetize the video stream before encapsulating it in IP for forwarding over 
the network. The video must then traverse multiple different network layers, elements, and 
media before it is decoded for viewing at the customer premise. A myriad of issues can occur 
that negatively impact viewing quality, including packet loss and jitter.  

Typically, network operators use highly skilled technicians and specialized appliances 
to identify and troubleshoot video-specific problems, but it is prohibitively expensive to 
deploy probes at every point in the network that the video traverses. Probes also consume 
precious space and power resources, and getting video traffic to the probes imposes 
additional operational complexity, like port mirroring. Furthermore, the costly deep MPEG 
analysis capabilities available on probes are largely wasted, as MPEG formatted video is 
encrypted for transport across the network.   

Juniper Networks® Junos® Video Focus for the Juniper Networks MX Series 3D Universal 
Edge Router overcomes these limitations. Deployed inline on the programmable Junos 
Trio chipset, Junos Video Focus can be broadly implemented without adding the cost and 
complexity imposed by specialized video probes. It utilizes IETF RFC 4445 Media Delivery 
Index (MDI) as well as MPEG and RTP header analysis to assess video quality, triggering 
alarms when configurable delay, loss, and jitter thresholds are exceeded to alert you to 
problems before they impact your customers. Custom scripts can be created to allow 
automated network reconfiguration when thresholds are exceeded, proactively preventing 
impairments from impacting video quality and user experience. 

Architecture and Key Components
Junos Video Focus is a licensed application that runs inline on programmable Junos Trio 
chipset-based MX Series platforms and Modular Port Concentrators (MPCs) for Juniper 
Networks MX240, MX480, MX960, MX2010, and MX2020 Universal Edge Routers. No span 
ports, dedicated service cards, or additional video-specific probes are required. 

To ensure maximum efficiency and scale, only video streams are monitored as they 
traverse the network, Junos Video Focus monitors and assesses video quality at the ingress 
and egress ports, using RFC 4445 MDI to measure Delay Factor (DF), Media Loss Rate 
(MLR), and Media Rate Variation (MRV). Junos Video Focus also analyzes MPEG headers 
for CRC errors, and to identify the specific video streams impacted by network issues. 

Your ideas. Connected.™

1

Data SheetFeatures and Benefits
Benefit
Feature

Advanced capabilities

•  Assures accurate video quality assessment via industry standard RFC 4445 MDI to measure Delay Factor (DF), 

Router integration

Simple and efficient

Media Loss Rate (MLR), Media Rate Variation (MRV)

•  Provides header monitoring with dynamic RTP or native MPEG stream detection 
•  Offers bidirectional visibility into video streams, capturing detailed statistics that enhances troubleshooting and 

reduces time to repair

•  Customization: supports automatic switching between primary and back-up video streams when impairments 

are detected and thresholds are exceeded, based on custom scripts

•  Protects space and power resources: no need for dozens or hundreds of appliances
• 
• 

 Preserves expensive router slots and ports, runs inline on the Junos Trio chipset
Improves operations:  
 - Single OS to qualify and maintain, single release train for feature enhancements
 - Single management system for routing and video monitoring; opportunity to correlate network issues with 

service-layer impacts

•  Offers high performance: no impact to router forwarding

•  Simplifies network design: no span ports required or additional design complexity
•  Reduces risk: added to MX Series platforms via software license
• 
• 

Increases capital efficiency: no dedicated cards or probes
 Increases operational efficiency: no additional probes or service cards to spare, no additional operating systems 
to maintain, no additional vendors to manage

•  Simplifies configuration and reduces burden on technical staff 

 - Wildcards enable broad classification of traffic
 - Templates simplify configuration

•  Delivers industry-leading video monitoring performance
•  Provides high scale: only selected video streams are monitored, all other traffic bypasses video quality analysis

Specifications

•  Provides IETF RFC 4445, Media Delivery Index (MDI) 

monitoring on ingress and egress interfaces for compressed 
and uncompressed Standard Definition (SD) and High 
Definition (HD) unicast and multicast video

work to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, and 
availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/en/
products-services. 
Ordering Information

•  Supports priority 1 elements of ETSI TR101: Digital Video 

Model Number

Name

Broadcasting (DVB); measurement guidelines for DVB 
systems

•  Provides automatic detection of native MPEG and RTP, and 

support for MPEG2-TS and MPEG4-TS, over UDP and RTP

•  Offers support for constant bit rate (CBR) traffic per SMPTE 

specification for both SPTS and MPTS

JVF-VM-1G

JVF-VM-5G

Enables 1Gbps of inline video monitoring

Enables 5Gbps of inline video monitoring

Junos Video Focus is implemented on the MX5, MX10, MX40, 
MX80, MX104 Universal Edge Routers, and MPCs for the MX240, 
MX480, MX960, MX2010, and MX2020—each sold separately.

Juniper Networks Services and Support

Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling ser-
vices that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the net-

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2014 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetJunos Video Focus1000497-001-EN  Oct 2014