JSA Series Secure Analytics 
Appliances with IBM Security  
X-Force Threat Intelligence  

Product Overview

IBM Security X-Force Threat 
Intelligence augments the JSA 
Series Secure Analytics Appliances 
intelligence capabilities by feeding 
in proprietary threat insights, 
including data on malware hosts, 
spam sources, and anonymous 
proxies. This allows organizations 
to use up-to-the-minute threat 
intelligence to gain deeper insight 
and greater protection to prevent 
or minimize the impact of today’s 
complex and serious security 
attacks.

Product Description 
As security threats steadily increase in volume and sophistication, it’s becoming more 
challenging to identify the most serious ones. Users must correlate threat information from 
multiple sources to make more informed decisions about which security issues pose the 
biggest threats to their organizations. This is particularly true on today’s smarter planet, 
where instrumented, interconnected, and intelligent businesses collect, process, use, and 
store more information than ever before. With today’s large variety of incoming attacks, 
it can be extremely difficult to detect and analyze ever-changing threats—much less turn 
collected threat data into actionable insights that consistently identify which threats are 
most dangerous.

A solid security foundation designed to meet this need is Juniper Networks® JSA Series 
Secure Analytics Appliances, an integrated family of products that helps detect and defend 
against threats by applying sophisticated analytics to more types of data. In doing so, the 
platform helps identify high-priority incidents that might otherwise get lost in the noise. 
And you can extend these comprehensive analytics still further, using IBM Security X-Force 
Threat Intelligence to augment the JSA Series Secure Analytics family’s intelligence 
capabilities by feeding in proprietary threat insights, including data on malware hosts, spam 
sources, and anonymous proxies. Combining worldwide intelligence from IBM X-Force with 
security information and event management (SIEM), log management, anomaly detection, 
and configuration and vulnerability management capabilities from Juniper’s portfolio of 
solutions provides users with additional context on security incidents, helping improve 
prioritization of incidents that require additional examination—and enabling organizations 
to prevent or minimize damaging attacks.

Architecture and Key Components
Tens of thousands of malware samples are created every day, with new classes of threats 
continually added to and improved upon. Sophisticated hackers use polymorphic programs 
to alter malware into new form factors after each delivery. And all of this is exacerbated 
by the proliferation of mobile devices, cloud computing, and virtualization—in fact, the 
intersection of these technologies provides fertile new ground for threats and malware.

In addition, today’s attacks are often not random, but targeted for maximum financial gain 
and impact. Rogue individuals and groups are constantly innovating new ways to attack 
organizations’ critical data. As a result, traditional methods of dealing with Internet threats 
are no longer enough. Organizations need visibility into a much wider range of threat data 
than ever before in order to protect themselves most effectively. Adding X-Force Threat 
Intelligence to JSA Series Secure Analytics Appliances can provide the extra intelligence 
required to go up against these modern day threats.

Your ideas. Connected.™

1

Data SheetIntelligence

Global Data Centers

Data Capture

Analytics

Threat Intelligence Databases

IBM Security X-Force Threat Intelligence

Figure 1. The X-Force research and development team inspects millions of new and updated Internet sites every day, 
collects information, categorizes content, and identifies those sites that pose a security danger to an organization.

Channel the Power of IBM X-Force

X-Force Threat Intelligence is much more than just a compilation 
of threat data. Behind it is the power of the IBM X-Force research 
and development team—one of the best-known commercial 
security research groups in the world. This team of security 
experts provides the foundation for the IBM preemptive approach 
to Internet security by focusing its attention on researching 
and evaluating vulnerabilities and security issues, developing 
assessments and countermeasure technologies for IBM products, 
and educating users about emerging Internet threats and trends.

day vulnerabilities. It also collaborates with the world’s leading 
businesses and governments, vertical sector information sharing 
and analysis centers, global coordination centers, and other 
product vendors to provide complete data. Finally, from an 
engineering perspective, the team analyzes proof of concepts 
and public exploit code. By monitoring global Internet threats 
around the clock and updating the IBM Internet Security Systems 
AlertCon resource center in real time, the X-Force team helps 
keep JSA Series Secure Analytics Appliances users abreast of the 
current global Internet threat level at all times.

X-Force is instrumental in protecting users against the threat 
of attack because IBM’s knowledge base and data collection 
methods are unmatched in the industry. From a vulnerability 
perspective, the team maintains and analyzes one of the world’s 
most comprehensive databases of known security vulnerabilities, 
with more than 70,000 entries, including detailed analyses of 
every notable public vulnerability disclosure since 1994. From a 
threat perspective, the team tracks billions of security incidents 
daily, monitors millions of spam and phishing attacks, and has 
analyzed billions of web pages and images. X-Force maintains 
a global research footprint that delivers unequaled security 
research and threat mitigation technology to JSA Series Secure 
Analytics portfolio users.

In addition to relying on its own findings, the X-Force team 
collects data from multiple research sources, researching 
all publicly disclosed vulnerabilities, consuming commercial 
vulnerability data, and monitoring the underground for zero-

Juniper users gain access to all of these benefits when they add 
the proprietary threat insights of X-Force Threat Intelligence to 
the JSA Series Secure Analytics portfolio of products.

Enhance Juniper Secure Analytics Capabilities  
with X-Force

X-Force Threat Intelligence leverages the X-Force research 
and development team’s skills and infrastructure to provide 
additional insight into and context for security situations that 
involve IP addresses of a suspicious nature. By categorizing 
IP addresses into segments such as malware hosts, spam 
sources, and anonymous proxies, this IP reputation data can be 
incorporated into the JSA Series Secure Analytics Appliances’ 
rules, offenses, and events. This allows for capturing events more 
quickly and accurately than previously possible, as well as for 
capturing them in a way that provides additional understanding 
for further analysis.

2

Data SheetJSA Series Secure Analytics Appliances with IBM Security X-Force Threat IntelligenceEnhance Juniper Secure Analytics with IBM Security X-Force Threat Intelligence

X-Force Threat Intelligence 

X-Force

Botnet command and control
Anonymous proxies
Dynamic IPs
Spam
Malware
Scanning IPs

Standard intelligence feed

Open-source threat intelligence

Juniper Networks
Secure Analytics

Figure 2. Using X-Force Threat Intelligence with JSA Series Secure Analytics Appliances provides valuable capabilities 

beyond those included in the standard Juniper intelligence feed, such as frequent updates, in-house analytics, 

confidence ranking, and comprehensive coverage.

family’s correlation and analysis functions and serves to greatly 
enrich threat detection capabilities with up-to-the-minute 
Internet threat data. Any security event or network activity data 
seen involving these addresses is automatically flagged, adding 
valuable context to security incident analyses and investigations.

Users can also incorporate the latest X-Force security threat 
advisories and informational updates into the JSA Series Secure 
Analytics dashboard. This dashboard includes the current 
X-Force AlertCon level, which provides users with a quick and 
concise indicator of current Internet threat conditions.

Using X-Force Threat Intelligence with JSA Series Secure 
Analytics Appliances is simple and fast—once users have added 
these threat insights, they will immediately begin receiving 
advanced threat data automatically and seamlessly.

Get the Most Value Out of Additional Threat 
Intelligence

X-Force Threat Intelligence provides vulnerability coverage across 
a wide range of use cases, including:

Figure 3. Leveraging X-Force Threat Intelligence in conjunction with 

the JSA Series Secure Analytics portfolio’s rules enables users to 

more precisely detect dangerous network activity.

X-Force IP reputation data is constantly updated and 
maintained, and the content in these feeds is given relative 
threat scoring. This enables users of JSA Series Secure Analytics 
Appliances to prioritize incidents and offenses generated 
through this content. The data from these intelligence sources is 
automatically incorporated into the JSA Series Secure Analytics 

Security issue

A series of attempted logins from a dynamic range of IP addresses

An anonymous proxy connection to a business partner portal

A connection from a non-mail server with a known spam host

A connection between an internal endpoint and a known botnet command and control

Communication between an endpoint and a known malware distribution site

Insight provided

Malicious attacker

Suspicious behavior

Spam contamination

Botnet infection

Malware attack

3

Data SheetJSA Series Secure Analytics Appliances with IBM Security X-Force Threat IntelligenceBy adding the dynamic information from X-Force Threat 
Intelligence to the analytical capabilities of JSA Series Secure 
Analytics Appliances, users can gain more intelligent and 
accurate security enforcement. This additional insight from 
X-Force Threat Intelligence enables Juniper users to apply this 
valuable data in real time to more closely monitor—and tightly 
secure—their environments.

Features and Benefits

•  Automatically feed IBM X-Force data into JSA Series Secure 

Analytics Appliances

•  Enrich Juniper’s threat analysis capabilities with up-to-the-

minute data on Internet threats

•  Leverage the additional threat context provided by IBM 

Security X-Force Threat Intelligence to gain deeper insight—
and greater protection

•  Prevent or minimize the impact of today’s complex and 

serious security attacks

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

Ordering Information
To learn more about how IBM Security X-Force Threat 
Intelligence and Juniper Networks JSA Series Secure Analytics 
Appliances can benefit your organization, please contact your 
Juniper Networks representative and visit www.juniper.net.

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2016 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetJSA Series Secure Analytics Appliances with IBM Security X-Force Threat Intelligence 1000545-001-EN   May 2016