Spotlight Secure

Product Overview

Spotlight Secure is a highly 
open and scalable threat 
intelligence platform that 
aggregates threat feeds from 
multiple sources to deliver 
open, consolidated, actionable 
intelligence to SRX Series 
Services Gateways (firewalls) 
across the organization. These 
sources include Juniper threat 
feeds, third-party threat feeds, 
and threat detection technologies 
that the customer can deploy. 
Administrators can define 
enforcement policies from 
all feeds easily from a single 
management interface, Junos 
Space Security Director. 

Your ideas. Connected.™

Product Description 
Juniper Networks® Spotlight Secure threat intelligence platform aggregates threat feeds 
from multiple sources to deliver open, consolidated, actionable intelligence to Juniper 
Networks SRX Series Services Gateways (firewalls) across the organization. These sources 
include Juniper threat feeds from our own (Spotlight Secure) cloud-based service, third-
party threat feeds, and threat detection technologies that the customer can deploy. 
Administrators are able to define enforcement policies from all feeds via, Juniper Networks 
Junos® Space Security Director, a centralized management point for the SRX Series.

Customers can utilize the advanced protection available using Juniper Spotlight Secure 
threat intelligence platform for a variety of use cases, including protection from advanced 
malware (related to Command and Control botnet activity) at an enterprise edge central 
HQ and/or remote locations, Web application protection for critical business applications 
in the data center and to enforce policies for monitoring and controlling traffic from specific 
countries. In addition, customers can integrate custom or third-party feeds, and other 
advanced protection technologies into Spotlight Secure for protection against threats 
specific to their industry or vertical. Financial and government verticals often have specific 
feeds that they need to use for compliance and security needs, and being able to use an 
open threat intelligence platform to use such feed data for policy enforcement can be 
highly beneficial.

Features and Benefits
As the threat landscape continues to accelerate and evolve, the security industry continues 
to respond with a variety of disparate new detection technologies. Unfortunately, this 
approach results in customers struggling to manage a patchwork of uncoordinated security 
tools, leaving a gap between detection and enforcement at the firewall. Many next-
generation firewalls (NGFWs) include integrated capabilities, such as intrusion prevention 
system (IPS), antivirus signatures, and proprietary reputation feeds, but they are closed 
systems that are not capable of taking full advantage of the highly diverse third-party and 
custom feeds utilized by customers.

Protecting enterprise edge, traditional, and cloud data centers from advanced malware 
and other threats requires a new way of thinking about network defenses. Companies 
must focus on detecting attacks and attackers early on (rather than at the point of breach) 
and ensuring better integration of intelligence across security architectures (in contrast 
to point products without information sharing). The majority of security products on the 
market today attempt to detect a specific exploit at the instant that attack is launched. 
Regrettably, this only works against known attacks, where there is only a single opportunity 
to detect and stop the threat. Customers could benefit from being able to leverage data 
feed sources that have been optimized and can be easily used for policy enforcement 
quickly, before their network and subsequently critical data are compromised. For example, 
to effectively secure business- critical IT data centers, companies must have knowledge of 
the attacking devices—not just the IP address—and be able to disseminate that intelligence 

1

Data Sheetquickly to all data center access control points by leveraging the 
firewall as an enforcement point.

With Spotlight Secure working in conjunction with SRX Series 
firewalls for policy enforcement at the perimeter, and optionally 
Juniper Networks WebApp Secure for local Web application 
attack detection, Juniper helps companies track and stop 
attackers early on, before they can do any harm. 

SRX Series firewalls can easily consume threat intelligence 
from Spotlight Secure, a highly open and scalable platform. 
Spotlight Secure allows you to bring together diverse threat 
intelligence and detection capable of providing timely, actionable 
enforcement on the firewall. In terms of device scale, Spotlight 
Secure can push security intelligence to thousands of firewalls 
simultaneously via Junos Space Security Director. In terms 
of capacity, it allows over one million data feed entries to 
be utilized for policy enforcement by a single high-end SRX 
Series firewall (Juniper Networks SRX1400 Services Gateway 
and later versions). These entries can be related to Juniper 
sourced feeds, custom feeds, or a combination of both. The 
security administrator can manage the large number of feeds 
conveniently with a single point of management, Junos Space 
Security Director. Plus, Spotlight Secure enables comprehensive 
enforcement by the SRX Series firewall to stop the broadest 
spectrum of threats.

Spotlight Secure enables SRX Series firewalls to provide highly 
effective protection. With the platform, you can use and enforce 
the most effective technologies available provided by Juniper 
and other industry leaders, including feeds customized to your 
industry or organization. By providing real-time integration 
between threat feeds and the firewall, only the latest and most 
relevant intelligence is sent to firewalls, which reduces the 
need for manual transfer of new threat information to firewall 
enforcement, ensuring fast time to enforcement and low false 
positive rates with the latest intelligence. Threat severity ratings 
for each data feed entry allow security administrators to write 
policy based on ratings and to fine-tune solutions for their own 
deployments in order to reduce false positives and increase 
efficacy. Regular updates to Juniper threat feeds (via the cloud) 
ensure that feed data is current and help enforce policies on 
the SRX Series firewall based on only the latest threats, while 
maximizing firewall device resources.

Through Spotlight Secure, Juniper offers customers a wide 
breadth of options with regard to data feeds, enabling highly 
customizable protection. 

•  Command and Control (C&C), anti-botnet threat feeds—

Malware is identified that is communicating with C&C 
servers, and botnets are stopped via the SRX Series firewall.

•  GeoIP feeds—Mapped IP addresses to geographic region 

data are incorporated into the SRX Series firewall policy 
for monitoring/blocking traffic from/to specific locations in 
accordance with business policy.

•  Attacker device fingerprints—Known attacker device 

information is utilized for monitoring/blocking traffic using 
either the SRX Series firewall or WebApp Secure. Specific 
features that go beyond IP address fingerprinting and offer 
companies protection from hackers who have already visited 
their websites include the following:

 - Attacker devices identified based on intrusion deception 

(through WebApp Secure) and policy enforcement via SRX 
Series firewall

 - Device-level tracking for definitive attacker identification with 

almost no false positives

 - Tracking of hundreds of identifying attributes, including 

browser version, browser add-on, IP address, time zone, and 
fonts

 - Identification rate of 99 percent

 - Device fingerprinting that overcomes use of proxy servers to 
identify and track the attacker’s device, no matter which IP 
address the attacker is using to evade detection

 - Flexible counterresponses at both the application layer and 

network firewall

 - Continuous tracking of attackers, even if they shift proxies

 - Ability to direct counterresponses at a single offending device, 

so that legitimate customers who might be behind a shared 
IP address remain unaffected

 - Assignment of permanent aliases for attackers

 - Ability to direct counterresponses at a single offending device, 

so that legitimate customers who might be behind a shared 
IP address remain unaffected

Customers can also choose to use their own (custom/
proprietary) or third-party feeds by building and applying custom 
whitelists, blacklists, or both and sharing them with Junos Space 
Security Director, which then shares the data with SRX Series 
firewalls for policy enforcement.

Spotlight Secure enables enterprises to achieve operational 
efficiency as they apply and manage security across the SRX 
Series firewall estate. First, with Spotlight Secure’s simplified 
enforcement model, organizations can dramatically reduce 
administrative overhead. Integration between Junos Space 
Security Director and Spotlight Secure links cloud-based threat 
feeds to customer firewalls and provides a single aggregation 
point for multiple feeds into the firewall. Also, firewall policies, 
threat intelligence feeds, and reporting on enforcement and 
actions are all available in a single-pane view with Security 
Director. Furthermore, the latest aggregated threat intelligence 
can automatically syndicate across the entire firewall estate, with 
no need to update or commit firewall policy changes. 

With Spotlight Secure, enterprises benefit from a security 
intelligence solution tightly integrated with the SRX Series 
firewall that helps them ensure the security of their sensitive and 
mission-critical data proactively, effectively, and with minimal 
operational overhead.

2

Data SheetSpotlight SecureArchitecture and Key Components

Spotlight

Secure

Security Intelligence Feeds
– Command and Control
– GeoIP
– Attacker Fingerprints

Internet

Security Policy

Trust Intelligence

SRX Series
(Enforcement Point)

Security
Director

Log

Director

Spotlight

Secure

Connector

Custom/third
Party Feeds

WebApp Secure

Web
Servers

Figure 1: Linking security intelligence to policy enforcement by SRX Series (and optionally WebApp Secure) for 

rapid protection against advanced threats

Juniper Networks Services and Support

Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling ser-
vices that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the net-
work to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, and 
availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/en/

products-services. 
Ordering Information
What to Buy

To use security intelligence based on the Spotlight Secure threat 
intelligence platform for your SRX Series Services Gateways, you 
need to purchase, at a minimum, the following:

 - Juniper Networks SRX550 Services Gateway or later model—

This is for policy enforcement based on threat intelligence 
feeds.

 - Juniper Networks Junos Space Network Management 

Platform—This product centrally aggregates threat 
intelligence before sharing with the policy enforcement 
point(s). 

 - Junos Space Security Director—This product centrally 

manages SRX Series firewall policies.

 - Security Intelligence (SecIntel) Service software—This 

service applies threat intelligence to the firewall policy and 

adheres to the Juniper Software Advantage pricing model, 
which is a trust-based, no-enforcement model. The service 
license is sold as a subscription (fixed term) with the option 
to purchase for usage for 1, 3, or 5 years at a time. This 
subscription software license includes Juniper Care Software 
Advantage, entitling you to software updates and upgrades, 
24x7 remote technical support, and online support.

You can optionally purchase these:

 - Juniper threat feeds

 -  Command and Control (C&C), anti-bot—This is for policy 

enforcement based on known malicious IPs/URLs/domains 
tied to C&C source/botnet. The software adheres to the 
Juniper Software Advantage pricing model, as described 
previously under Security Intelligence (SecIntel) Service 
software.

 -  Web attacker fingerprints (global)—This software is for policy 
enforcement based on known malicious attacker devices and 
adheres to the Juniper Software Advantage pricing model.

 -  GeoIP—This software is for policy enforcement based on 

country-to-IP mapping information and adheres to the 
Juniper Software Advantage pricing model.

 - WebApp Secure—This software or hardware appliance 
uses (local or global) attacker fingerprint data for policy 
enforcement either locally using WebApp Secure or at the 
network perimeter using SRX Series Services Gateways,

3

Data SheetSpotlight SecureJuniper Networks products are sold directly as well as through 
Juniper partners and resellers. For more information on the 
Juniper Software Advantage business model, please visit www.
juniper.net/us/en/products-services/security/.

For information on how to buy, please visit www.juniper.net/us/ 
en/how-to-buy.

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2014 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetSpotlight Secure1000427-003-EN  Oct 2014