Junos Space SDK

Product Overview

Application development has 
generally meant long, expensive 
development cycles, limited 
cross-application development 
leverage, and a network 
engineering-centric approach. 
This has forced developers to 
focus on costs, cycle times, and 
foundational code rather than 
innovative applications.

Juniper Networks Junos Space 
SDK is an open, network-centric 
application development toolkit 
explicitly designed to enable 
developers to use the information 
embedded in the network to 
create unique, differentiated 
applications quickly, easily, 
and economically, providing 
endless possibilities for network 
intelligence, such as:

Product Description 
Juniper Networks® Junos® Space SDK is the industry’s most complete developer toolkit 
specifically designed for easy creation of network-aware applications. Junos Space SDK 
enables developers to fully leverage network intelligence and services from the Junos Space 
Network Management Platform to develop differentiated applications. Building sophisticated 
workflow engines, core business logic, streamlined interfaces for operational tools or a new 
fully integrated Junos Space application is all possible with the Junos Space SDK.

Junos Space SDK is a developer toolkit that is part of Junos Space, a comprehensive 
network management solution that simplifies management of Juniper’s switching, routing, 
and security devices.  With Junos Space, you can simplify and automate the network, 
improve network agility, and deliver new services quickly all from a single console.  Junos 
Space is composed of the following three software elements:

1.  Junos Space Network Management Platform—Provides comprehensive FCAPS and 

element management of Juniper devices which improves operator efficiencies, providing 
a programmable interface and exposable APIs that enable the development and 
integration of 3rd party applications.

2.  Junos Space Management Applications—Plug-n-play, domain-specific applications 

to help you provision new services and optimize workflow tasks across thousands of 
Juniper devices 

•  Real-time policy management

3.  Junos Space SDK (software development kit)—A programmable network solution 

•  Energy usage and tracking 

•  Custom workflows 

•  Network insight for business 

intelligence 

•  Correlation of user subscribed 

services

•  Policy and QoS management

that enables you to leverage the connections and intelligence embedded in the network 
to create customized management solutions for your specific needs 

Architecture and Key Components 
Junos Space SDK leverages well-known technologies and constructs to create an 
extremely flexible software development environment.

Applications— Language independent web services are used to create or enhance 
applications with insight from Junos Space.

Web Services APIs—This abstraction layer presents harmonized access to the underlying 
capabilities of Junos Space through HTTP interfaces. 

Your ideas. Connected.™

1

Data SheetBuilding an Application
The Junos Space SDK offers developers flexible options for 
creating applications. These include:

Data Applications – Build applications that use and combine 
data, insight or functionality from the Junos Space Network 
Management Platform, its Management Applications or external 
sources to create new services. It’s a fast and easy way to 
integrate open APIs and data sources to produce enriched results 
that were not necessarily the original reason for producing the 
raw source data.

Workflows–Create new application logic to add capabilities to 
Junos Space Network Management Platform, while at the same 
time expressing through APIs for use in other Space-hosted or 
external applications. It’s a great way to collect insight, process 
and make it available to others.

Rich Applications–Design and implement fully native Junos 
Space Management applications that add capabilities to the 
platform, create new APIs for use by others and integrate open 
APIs and data sources to further enrich their capabilities and 
experience. It’s a robust way to own the experience, gather insight 
and take action.

Integration–Access insight and take actions from external 
applications and services—Junos Space web services allow 
you to access the capabilities of the platform through HTTP to 
further enrich the capabilities and experience of your stand-alone 
or externally hosted applications. It’s a language independent 
method to access Junos Space Network Management Platform 
and to make your applications and services network aware. 

Info Service—A dedicated service for use in discovering available 
APIs provided by the platform and hosted applications. 

Infrastructure Services—Access the platform’s fundamental 
capabilities for use in creating applications that leverage 
network services.

Network and Device Services—These services provide a model 
for interacting with devices that abstracts away the specifics of 
the device connection and communication protocols.

Database Access—Applications have abstracted access to the 
underlying Junos Space database.

Junos Space
Management Applications

UI App

Business
Logic App

Native App

HTTP Interface

Web Service APIs

Abstraction + Harmonization

Junos Space Network Management Platform provided services

SQL Server

Network
Elements

Features and Benefits
Features

Benefits

Junos Space plug-in for  
wizard-based Eclipse IDE

Ext designer,  
Custom UI designer

RESTful Web services

Simplified application development of Junos Space Management Applications
•  Rapid creation of the primary Junos Space Management Application types
• 

Increased efficiency with custom features including REST Explorer, REST wizard, grouping views, auto 
completion and syntax check

Rapid user interface prototyping
•  Easy, fast collaboration with development team members
•  Quick, easy integration of data stores into your interface from any data source (JSON, XML, or custom)
•  Building rich Internet applications with industry standard JavaScript library
•  Ease of design and configuration with drag-and-drop designer components 

•  Reusable across popular platforms
•  Easily consumable services using basic XML rather than SOAP 
•  Support for all typical CRUD (create, update, and delete) operations through HTTP methods

Simulators, virtual machine 
included with the developer 
environment

Fast, easy application performance and scale optimization by simulating Juniper runtime environment
•  Reduced test/staging costs with a fully functional instance of the Junos Space Network Management 

Platform for test/deployment of Junos Space SDK-based applications

•  Ability to test applications against virtual Junos OS with the device and element simulators

2

Data SheetJunos Space SDKJuniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

Program Information
For more information on the Junos Space SDK offering, please 
visit www.juniper.net/us/en/products-services/software/junos-
platform/junos-space/.

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2014 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetJunos Space SDK1000330-003-EN  Oct 2014