Junos Space Network Director

Product Overview

As businesses increasingly move 
to the cloud, there is a critical need 
for turnkey solutions that can help 
them bridge the gap between 
their existing environments and 
their vision of more agile and 
flexible networks that will reduce 
complexity and cost. 

Junos Space Network Director is 
a next-generation network-wide 
management solution optimized 
for agility, automation, and 
simplicity for the cloud era. It  
allows users to visualize, analyze, 
and control the entire enterprise 
network—data center and 
campus—through a single pane 
of glass.

Product Description 
Juniper Networks® Junos® Space Network Director provides a smart, comprehensive, 
and automated network management solution designed for the cloud era that enables 
network and cloud administrators to visualize, analyze, and control their entire enterprise 
network—data center and campus, physical and virtual infrastructure—through a single 
pane of glass. In the data center, Network Director, which offers a full turnkey solution, 
helps administrators manage, visualize, and troubleshoot physical and virtual environments 
by providing correlated visibility between virtualized and physical networks, as well as 
flow analysis, visualization, and synchronization of network policies as virtual machines 
(VMs) move from server to server. In the campus, Network Director automates routine 
management tasks such as network provisioning and troubleshooting, dramatically 
improving operational efficiency and reliability. 

Network Director incorporates key functions that address the challenges posed by the 
rapid adoption of virtualized, dynamic, and on-demand cloud services across data center 
and cloud deployments. In addition, Network Director offers sophisticated end-to-end 
network visibility and flow path analysis in conjunction with the Juniper Networks Cloud 
Analytics Engine, providing flow-aware performance analysis to improve application 
performance and availability by associating flows/applications across the physical 
and virtual infrastructure, improving the ability to quickly roll out new applications and 
troubleshoot problems.

These smart network management capabilities are delivered through the following  
key features.

Automate

•  Fabric automation fully automates the provisioning, configuration, and deployment 
of complex underlay and virtualized fabric topologies, providing comprehensive pre- 
and post-deployment support and management for Layer 2 and Layer 3 fabrics, as 
well as Junos Fusion Enterprise fabrics. Junos Fusion is a single-tier architecture that 
allows an enterprise network to be managed as a single system.

•  Zero touch provisioning (ZTP) simplifies the deployment of networks without 

requiring user intervention, providing policy-driven plug-and-play provisioning and 
network bring-up operations for both fabrics and individual devices.

•  Bulk provisioning enables faster service rollout and activation while protecting 

against configuration errors with profile-based and pre-validated configurations. Bulk 
operations can be performed at logical (access, aggregation, core) or location (site, 
building, floor, rack) levels.

•  Automated access port provisioning supports plug-and-play operations. Network 

Director detects the end point device types (such as wireless access points and VoIP 
phones) that are plugged into ports and automatically provisions all port-related 
parameters including VLAN, 802.1x, and security policies to comply with port profiles.

1

Data SheetAnalyze

•  Performance Analyzer provides real-time and trended 
monitoring of tenants, hosts, VMs, fabrics, and ports, as 
well as high-frequency monitoring that gathers valuable 
performance data for tracking queue depth and heat-map 
visualization. Network Director analyzes the entire network, 
using heat-maps to identify over- and under-utilized ports, 
latency, and top VMs, users, devices, and ports.

•  Network Traffic Analyzer proactively monitors network 

usage to find the sources of network traffic spikes. 
Incorporating an automated policy-driven sFlow collector 
and flow analysis, Network Traffic Analyzer quickly identifies 
and isolates users, applications and protocols consuming 
the most bandwidth.

•  Flow Path Analyzer provides operational and diagnostic 
capabilities that trace connectivity between applications 
and flows by correlating network telemetry data with 
the application. Flow Path Analyzer visualizes network 
paths between leaf and spine switches for a given flow/
application, correlating congested ports with high-latency 
events and identifying impacted or unhealthy VMs, 
applications, and hosts. 

•  Overlay and Underlay Analyzer provides full visibility, 

performance management, and troubleshooting 
capabilities for physical and virtualized overlay networks in 
VMware Virtual Extensible LAN (VXLAN) and controller-less 
environments. It provides a consolidated and correlated 
view of VMs, hosts, fabrics, and overlay and underlay 
networks with full end-to-end network and flow visibility 
and analysis.

•  VM Analyzer provides real-time physical and virtual 

topology views, tracks vMotion activity including virtual 
machine creation, deletion, and moves, and maintains 
complete virtual network inventory.

•  Fabric Analyzer monitors and analyzes the health of the 
entire network fabric, including IP Fabric, Virtual Chassis 
Fabric configurations, and Juniper Networks QFabric® 
System, increasing service availability.

Features and Benefits
End-to-End Network Visibility and Flow Path 
Analysis

Working in conjunction with the Cloud Analytics Engine, Network 
Director provides network data analysis to improve application 
performance and availability by associating flows with specific 
applications across the physical and virtual infrastructure, 
improving the ability to quickly roll out new applications and 
troubleshoot problems (see Figure 1).

Network Director analyzes and visualizes application flows 
running on VMs and bare-metal servers in the data center, 
reporting the specific path a flow takes through the network, 
the latency encountered at each hop, and traffic statistics for 

every network device in the path. Users can start flow analysis 
on selected active flows on a specific VM or a non-virtualized 
host on demand and view the results. When users place a critical 
VM or non-virtualized host on a watch list, Network Director will 
automatically initiate analysis on all flows running on that device. 

Figure 1: Flow path analysis

Network Traffic Analyzer

The Network Director Network Traffic Analyzer gathers detailed 
information about network bandwidth usage patterns on each 
switch port, allowing network administrators to make informed 
policy and planning decisions about specific applications and 
ports. Using an automated, policy-driven sFlow collector and 
flow analysis, Network Traffic Analyzer identifies which users, 
applications and protocols are consuming the most bandwidth, 
helping network administrators identify the source of network 
spikes and bursts to proactively monitor, control and manage 
network usage (Figure 2).

Figure 2: Network Traffic Analyzer

Integration with Virtualized and Cloud Infrastructure

Network Director integrates with virtualized and cloud infrastructure 
tools, providing network and cloud administrators with a 
comprehensive view of the complete data center infrastructure.

Network Director Management Pack for vRealize Operations 
provides comprehensive visibility into Juniper infrastructure 
and VMware virtual networking services deployed in a vSphere 
environment, including virtual machines (VMs), hosts, and 
network elements such as switches and switch fabrics. Virtual 
administrators and network operations managers will be able 

2

Data SheetJunos Space Network Directorto determine at a glance the health, capacity and performance 
of these objects, helping them quickly remediate problems that 
impact virtual machine connectivity and performance (Figure 3).

Fabric Automation and Management

Network Director provides comprehensive pre- and post-
deployment (Day 0 through Day 2) plug-and-play fabric 
automation and management for Layer 2 and Layer 3 fabric 
topologies. It fully automates fabric-wide provisioning, 
configuration, and deployment of complex fabric topologies 
comprised of multistage spine-and-leaf switches, eliminating 
errors associated with manual deployment (see Figure 5). As part 
of the pre-deployment automation process for Layer 3 fabrics, 
Network Director provides simple-to-use workflows to set up 
fabric switches, assign protocol settings, perform BGP IP address 
configuration and cabling, and set up ZTP servers for plug-and-
play operations.

Figure 3: Juniper Management Pack main dashboard

Network Director also provides holistic and correlated visibility 
into enterprise and private cloud data centers comprised of 
physical (underlay) fabrics and virtualized networks (see Figure 
4), as well as virtualized and non-virtualized hosts encompassing 
the following deployments:

•  VMware vCenter—Network Director unifies physical 

and virtual networks, providing a comprehensive view 
of the complete end-to-end virtual-to-physical network 
infrastructure. It integrates with VMware vCenter, delivering 
a combined solution that benefits from both vendors’ 
innovation and from Juniper’s orchestration solutions to 
discover, visualize connectivity between virtual and physical 
networks, orchestrate, and monitor VMware vSphere 
environments. 

•  VMware NSX and OpenStack—Network Director integrates 

with cloud infrastructure controlled by VMware NSX 
SDN Controller environments and OpenStack. Through 
this integration, Network Director provides complete and 
correlated visibility between virtualized and physical 
networks as well as virtual machines, VXLAN, virtual tunnel 
endpoints, and OpenStack networks with full end-to-end 
network and flow visibility and analysis (Figure 4). 

Figure 4: Virtualized (overlay) and underlay network visibility

In addition to virtualized and cloud infrastructure deployments 
mentioned above, Network Director also includes support for 
non-virtualized servers (also called bare-metal servers).

Figure 5: Fabric automation

Network Director also automates the discovery of fabrics and all of 
their associated switches. In addition, it performs cabling checks to 
ensure that all devices are connected per the initial design. 

Controller-Less Network Virtualization

As networks grow more flexible and agile, enterprises are turning 
to network virtualization in the data center to increase cost 
effectiveness and gain a competitive edge. Network Director 
completely automates the creation and management of overlay 
fabrics on top of Layer 3 IP fabrics (underlay networks) utilizing 
an Ethernet VPN (EVPN) control plane and VXLAN-based overlay 
topology. The process follows a simple workflow that includes:

•  Defining and mapping tenants to VRFs and VXLANs

•  Defining tenant segments and mapping those segments to 

VLANs and VXLAN associations

•  Multihoming server settings

•  Associating gateways for tenants

•  Providing full visibility into each tenant and overlay network, 
as well as correlated views of overlay and underlay networks

Multipoint Navigation and Views

Network Director improves operational efficiency by allowing 
users to manage the network from different views, groupings, 
and perspectives. It includes a customizable dashboard that 
provides a visual indication of overall network usage and 
network consumers, including VMs, hosts, top virtual networks, 

3

Data SheetJunos Space Network Directorflow analysis, utilization, latency, top talkers, and alarms—all 
presented as part of a color-coded heat map representing 
devices and ports. Each device is color coded to convey the level 
of port utilization and latency; “cooler” colors indicate lower port 
utilization and latency while “hotter” colors indicate higher port 
utilization and latency (see Figure 6). 

Figure 6: Dashboard view

In addition, Network Director Topology view shows all discovered 
devices in the network on a map where the devices are located 
across sites, buildings, floors, closets, and racks, along with their 
physical connections to other devices in the network. Topology 
view also shows the physical and logical connectivity between 
various discovered interconnected devices. Topology view allows 
users to zoom in or out of a site, see how a device is connected 
to its immediate neighbors, including VMware hosts connected 
to the switch, or view alarm details, bandwidth of links, and real-
time link data and state of the devices. Network Director also 
enables devices to be rearranged across buildings on the map. 

Specifications
Network View and Device Selection

•  View devices grouped by logical relationships, locations, 

device type, custom group view, data center view, or 
topology view

•  Select logical, location, device-type, custom group, virtual, 

or topology view groupings to perform tasks on multiple 
devices simultaneously

• 

• 

 Search for devices in the network

 Define filters to selectively view specific logical, location, 
device-type, custom group, virtual, or topology groupings

Table 1. Supported Platforms

Supported Platforms

Operating System

QFX Series Ethernet Switches
QFX5100 Virtual Chassis Fabric

Junos OS releases 
14.1X53-D27, 14.1X53-D15, 
13.2X51-D20, 14.1X53-D40

QFX10002

QFX 10002 IP Fabric (Spine)
EX4300 (Leaf)
QFX5100

15.1X53-D61

15.1X53-D61
14.1X53-D40

QFX10008 IP Fabric (Spine)
QFX5200 IP Fabric (Spine and Leaf)
QFX5100

15.1X53-D33
15.1X53-D210
14.1X53-D40

QFX3500/QFX3600 (non ELS)

QFX3500/QFX3600 ELS and Virtual 
Chassis
QFX5100-24Q, QFX5100-48S, 
QFX5100-96S ELS and Virtual Chassis

12.3X50-D35 and 
12.3X50-D40

13.2X51-D30

14.1X53-D15, 14.1X53-D27, 
14.1X53-D40

QFX5100-48T

14.1X53-D40

QFabric Systems (QFX3000-G and 
QFX3000-M)

14.1X53-D15, 13.2X52-D20, 
14.1X53-D17

Junos OS releases 11.4, 12.1, 
12.2, 12.3, 13.2X50-D10, 
13.2X50-D15, 13.2X51-D15, 
13.2X51-D20, 13.2X51-D30, 
14.1X53-D15, 14.1X53-D25, 
15.1R1, 14.1X53-D35, 
14.1X53-D40.8

EX Series Ethernet Switches:
•  EX2200, EX2200-C
•  EX3200
•  EX3300: Standalone and with Virtual 

Chassis technology

•  EX4200: Standalone and with 

Virtual Chassis technology

•  EX4500: Standalone and with 

Virtual Chassis technology

•  EX4550: Standalone and with Virtual 

Chassis technology

•  Mixed EX4200, EX4500, EX4550 

Virtual Chassis configurations

•  EX6200
•  EX8200: Standalone and with 

Virtual Chassis technology

EX Series Ethernet Switches with ELS:
•  EX4300 Standalone and with Virtual 

Chassis technology

Junos OS releases 
13.2X51-D15, 13.2X51-D20, 
13.2X51-D30, 14.1X53-D27

EX4600 Standalone and with Virtual 
Chassis technology

Junos OS release 
13.2X51-D25, 14.1X53-D27

EX9200

MX Series 3D Universal Edge Routers
MX240, MX480, MX960 (ELS)

Junos OS releases 13.2R1, 
13.2R2, 13.3R2, 14.1R4, 
14.2R2, 15.1R1

Junos OS releases 
13.2R2.4, 14.1R4, 14.2R2, 
15.1R1

MX80, MX104, MX240, MX480, MX960 
(non-ELS)

Junos OS release 14.1R4, 
15.1R1

VMware vCenter Server

vCenter 5.0, 5.1, 5.5, 6.0

VMware vRealize Operations

6.0, 6.1, 6.2

VMware ESXi

OpenStack

VMware NSX –V

VMware ESXi versions 5.0, 
5.1, 5.5 and 6.0

Supported release—Kilo, 
Liberty, Mitaka, Newton

Version 6.2
Version 6.1
Version 4.1

4

Data SheetJunos Space Network DirectorData Center Management

•  Fully automated plug-and-play underlay fabric topologies 
•  Controller-less: Build virtual networks on top of IP fabric 
underlays without SDN controller utilizing EVPN/VXLAN
•  SDN integration: Discover virtual networks with VMware 

NSX SDN controller

•  Automatically orchestrate physical switches based on 

vMotion

•  View hosts, virtual switches, virtual machines, virtualized 

networks, and virtual tunnel end points (VTEPs)

•  View tenants, virtualized networks, and all underlay fabric 

resources

•  View connectivity between VMs, virtual switches, physical 

switches, and virtualized networks

•  View vMotion history, VM and host bandwidth utilization
•  Compatible with VMware vCenter versions 4.1, 5.0, 5.1,  

and 5.5

•  Compatible with VMware vSphere versions 4.0, 4.1, 5.0, 5.1, 

and 5.5

•  Compatible with VMware NSX 6.0, 6.1, and 6.2.0
•  Compatible with OpenStack Kilo, Liberty, Mitaka, and 

Newton

VMware vRealize Operations Management Pack

•  Management Pack provides:

 - Health dashboard for networking and compute to cloud 

administrators

 -   Device basic settings profile (EX Series, QFX Series, 

QFabric System, and MX Series [LAN])

 -   Filter profile (EX Series, QFX Series, QFabric System, and  

MX Series [LAN])

 -   Port profile (EX Series, QFX Series, MX Series [LAN] and 

QFabric System)

 -   Quick templates to setup smaller deployments
 - Auto profile provisioning based on policy
 -   VLAN profile (EX Series, QFX Series, QFabric System, MX 

Series [LAN] and WLC Series)

Deploy Mode Features
•  Configuration changes

 -   View pending configuration changes and validate 
changes before deploying configuration on devices
 -   Automatically deploy changes on selected devices 

immediately or at a scheduled time

 - Set SNMP configuration
 - Port channelization and conversion
 - Manual Approval mode requires device configuration 

changes to be explicitly approved

 -   View deployment results and manage configuration 

deployment jobs

•  Software images 

 -   Maintain a repository of software images for switches and 

wireless LAN controllers

 -   Deploy selected images on selected devices immediately 

or at a scheduled time

 - Correlated view of virtual and physical network 

 -   View deployment results and manage image deployment 

components to cloud administrators

 - Physical network capacity management and planning

•  Main dashboard widgets—Data Center Overview, Top 

Alerts, and Object Relationship—display all data centers, 
underlying fabrics, host devices, and virtual machines that 
are part of the data center network

•  Fabric and fabric members (spine/leaf) dashboards 

monitor Juniper Fabric topologies such as Virtual Chassis, 
QFabric Systems, Layer 3 fabrics, and Virtual Chassis 
Fabrics that are part of the data center. Dashboard widgets 
display data center fabrics, CPU and memory utilization 
history, and forecast widgets.

•  Top Fabrics and Fabric Members dashboard enables cloud 
administrators to view and identify potential performance 
issues in the data center, identifying top fabrics by CPU and 
memory utilization, top noisiest fabrics based on Alerts 
widget, and top volatile fabrics based on Metrics widget. 
Clicking on a row provides more details about that fabric 
and possible causes, If any, for the vulnerability of the fabric.

Configuration Profiles

•  Create, edit, or delete the following profiles:

 -   Access profile (EX Series Ethernet Switches and MX 

Series 3D Universal Edge Routers [LAN])

 -   Authentication profile (EX Series)
 -   Class-of-service (CoS) profile (EX Series, QFX Series, 

QFabric System, and MX Series [LAN])

jobs

•  Resynchronize configuration 

 -   Resynchronize the saved device configuration with the 

configuration on the device

•  Configuration file management 

 -   Back up and restore device configuration files

•  Configuration and image baselining 

 - Audit configuration changes and image files and send 

notification in the event of unauthorized changes

Monitor Mode Features

•  Traffic monitoring (view the following for traffic on switches 

and wireless LAN controllers):
 - Fabric and fabric members (spine and leaf) utilization
 - Network Traffic Analyzer 
 -   Fabric Analyzer for Virtual Chassis Fabric and QFabric 

System

 -   Top VMs by bandwidth utilization
 -   Host network interface card (NIC) bandwidth utilization
 -   Virtual switch summary by version
 -   VM bandwidth utilization trend
 -   Distribution of mobile devices
 - Current mix of unicast, multicast, and broadcast packets 

and trends over time

 - Port traffic trend and error trend
 - Current port utilization and trend

5

Data SheetJunos Space Network Director•  Equipment status 

 -   System information (view the following): 

•  Device status and information

•  CPU and memory usage

•  Fan and power supply status

•  Port status

Fault Mode Features

•  Alarm monitoring

 - Correlate low-level faults into easy-to-understand alarms
 - View current counts of critical, major, and minor alarms 

(always visible in user interface)

 - View alarms for selected scope by category, severity, and 

state

 - View individual alarm details
 - Search for an alarm

System Mode Features

•  Audit trail and job management

 - View audit trail of Network Director user and system 

activity

 - View and manage all jobs

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services/. 

Installation and Implementation Service
Juniper Professional Services offers a Network Director QuickStart 
program. This QuickStart provides an on-site consultant 
who works with the client team to plan the deployment of 
Junos Space and Network Director; identify any special setup 
requirements based on applications or resources; deploy the 
software, including system configuration; create discovery rules or 

directly import devices into the Junos Space platform inventory; 
and add new devices to Network Director. The final phase of the 
engagement consists of a review of the configuration information 
in Network Director and a knowledge transfer session of the 
Junos Space platform solution that includes a demonstration 
of basic discovery techniques and inventory tools. This phase 
also includes a demonstration of how to add and import device 
configurations into Network Director, as well as an explanation of 
basic element manipulation. The knowledge transfer session is 
intended as a review of the customer’s localized implementation 
and configuration options. It is not a substitute for formalized 
training.

Ordering Information
Network Director uses a very simple perpetual licensing model 
and is licensed by the number of devices that it manages, 
including EX Series Ethernet Switches and WLA Series Wireless 
LAN Access Points. Whether the device is a wireless LAN access 
point or an Ethernet switch, it is counted as a device. Wireless 
LAN controllers are not counted towards the device count. Select 
any quantities and any combination of the following SKUs for the 
number of devices you plan to manage.

Table 2. Junos Space Network Director Ordering Information

Model Number

Description

JS-NETDIR-10

Junos Space Network Director for 10 devices

JS-NETDIR-25

Junos Space Network Director for 25 devices

JS-NETDIR-100

Junos Space Network Director for 100 devices

Network Director is part of Junos Space and requires Junos Space 
Network Management Platform (JS-PLATFORM) to be installed.

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks challenges the status quo with products, 
solutions and services that transform the economics of 
networking. Our team co-innovates with customers and partners 
to deliver automated, scalable and secure networks with agility, 
performance and value. Additional information can be found at 
Juniper Networks or connect with Juniper on Twitter and Facebook.

EXPLORE JUNIPER
Get the App.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2016 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetJunos Space Network Director1000428-007-EN   Dec 2016