Network Visibility with  
Junos Traffic Vision

Product Overview

Junos Traffic Vision provide the 
capability for flow monitoring. 
Juniper Networks MX Series 3D 
Universal Edge Routers with 
Multiservices Modular Port 
Concentrator (MS-MPC) and 
Multiservices Modular Interface 
Cards (MS-MICs) are able to 
receive sampled packets from the 
forwarding engine and generate 
summarized flow records. Such 
flow records are exported in 
RFC-compliant standard packet 
formats.

Your ideas. Connected.™

Product Description 
Flow monitoring is a vital aspect of network management. It provides the operator 
information about traffic in the network and aids in tasks such as billing, traffic engineering, 
capacity planning, and traffic analysis for peering policy decisions.

Juniper Networks® Junos® Traffic Vision summary records give service providers the ability 
to collect data on packet flows, aggregate the data, and export the data to an external 
device. This enables usage-based accounting, traffic profiling, traffic engineering, attack/
intrusion detection, and service-level agreement (SLA) monitoring. The flow format is 
industry standards-based and can be exported to many third-party offline applications. 

Junos Traffic Vision provides:

•  Flexible deployment models and licensing options

•  Flow monitoring that is transparent to the network and imposes no changes to end 

stations

•  Flexible implementation at the individual interface, sub-interface, or virtual router level

•  No impact to flow performance, no changes to networked traffic or packets

Architecture and Key Components
The MX Series 3D Universal Edge Routers Portfolio

The MX Series portfolio of Ethernet services routers is the industry leader for carrier 
Ethernet capacity, density and performance. Optimized for emerging Ethernet network 
architectures and services, the MX Series is purpose-built for the most demanding carrier 
and enterprise applications, and it leverages Juniper Networks Junos operating system to 
enable carriers and enterprises to seamlessly and cost-effectively deploy Ethernet and 
accelerate their next-generation network deployments. By combining a best-in-class 
hardware platform with the reliability and service flexibility of Junos OS, the MX Series 
delivers a combination of features and capabilities previously unattainable in carrier 
Ethernet deployments.

Multiservices Cards (MS-MPC, MS-MIC)

MS-MPCs and MS-MICs are next-generation, advanced service modules for Juniper 
Networks® MX Series 3D Universal Edge Routers. They deliver the performance, services, 
and scalability that are critical to today’s advanced Ethernet services edge and broadband 
edge networks. MS-MPCs are full slot modules that supply hardware acceleration for an 
array of packet processing-intensive services for the MX2020, MX2010, MX960, MX480, 
and MX240 3D Universal Edge Routers. The MS-MIC is based on Juniper’s MIC card 
hardware form and can be inserted in the MX5, MX10, MX40, and MX80 3D Universal Edge 
Routers, as well as the MPC1, MPC2, and MPC3 cards. 

1

Data SheetThese cards offer flexible support for stateful firewall, Network 
Address Translation (NAT), IPsec, anomaly detection, flow 
monitoring and accounting, and tunnel services. This wide 
array of services enables service providers and enterprises to 
secure their network infrastructure; collect rich statistics for 
billing, capacity planning, and security purposes; and create new 
services, all with a single module. 

Specifications and Approvals
For a complete list of supported software features, please 
consult the Junos OS software documentation at www.juniper.
net/techpubs/software/. 

Junos Traffic Vision monitors network usage in support of 
troubleshooting, traffic analysis, and related operational tasks.

Features and Benefits
Junos Traffic Vision is the sampling service that is available on MX 
Series routers, and it keeps track of the packets treated by the 
router on any particular interface. The details of the traffic flow 
(also known as flow records) such as the source address, the 
destination address, packets and byte counts, etc. are aggregated 
and reported using the flow record. Junos Traffic Vision reporting 
and the sampling service does not hinder the traffic forwarded and 
processed by the MX Series router. Prior to reporting, the router 
will replicate/sample the incoming traffic, eliminating any network 
delay due to jitter introduced on the original flows. Sampling 
requires the use of a firewall filter with a sample of the action to be 
applied to the relevant interface/Packet Forwarding Engine (PFE)/
chassis whose traffic the operator wishes to report on. 

Support for cflowd cflowd v9, and cflowd v10 is included.

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

Ordering Information 

Model Number

Description

•  Junos Traffic Vision summary records give service providers 

MS-MIC 16G

the ability to collect data on packet flows, aggregate the 
data, and export the data to an external device. This enables 
usage-based accounting, traffic profiling, traffic engineering, 
attack/intrusion detection, and SLA monitoring. The flow 
format is industry standards-based and can be exported to 
many third-party offline applications. 

MS-MPC

MS-MIC with 16 GB of memory, occupies single 
MIC slot on MX5, MX10, MX40, and MX80 
3D Universal Edge Routers, as well as on the 
MPC1, MPC2, and MPC3 cards for the MX2020, 
MX2010, MX960, MX480, and MX240 3D 
Universal Edge Router.

MS-MPC with 128 GB of memory (32 GB 
per NPU) occupies a single slot in MX2020, 
MX2010, MX960, MX480, and MX240 3D 
Universal Edge Routers

•  Junos Traffic Vision records can be created in all Juniper 

router platforms while they operate in active mode, 
forwarding production traffic. As flow analysis is packet 
processing-intensive, specialized service cards such as 
the MS-MPC and MS-MIC are used to add capacity in the 
number of flows and bandwidth which may be analyzed. 
Flow analysis in both active and passive configuration can 
take place alongside the lawful intercept filtering and port 
mirroring—without any impact on performance.

JTV-FLOW 

Junos Traffic Vision J-FLOW

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2015 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetNetwork Visibility with Junos Traffic Vision1000456-001-EN   Mar 2015