Policy Enforcer

Product Overview

Juniper’s Software-Defined 
Secure Network (SDSN) platform 
leverages the entire network, 
not just perimeter firewalls, as 
a threat detection and security 
enforcement domain. The Policy 
Enforcer component of Junos 
Space Security Director provides 
the ability to orchestrate policies 
created by Juniper’s Sky Advanced 
Threat Prevention cloud-based 
malware detection solution and 
distributes them to EX Series and 
QFX Series switches, as well as to 
Juniper virtual and physical SRX 
Series firewalls.

Product Description 
Recent attacks on corporate networks have exposed the shortcomings of traditional 
“perimeter only” security architectures, proving that they are insufficient for providing 
complete and holistic protection. There are several key reasons why perimeter only 
solutions are inadequate:

•  A single application or endpoint breach inside the perimeter leaves the entire network 

vulnerable because attacks inside the perimeter cannot be blocked. 

•  Networks are completely vulnerable to insider attacks. Malware-infected endpoints 

are best isolated at the source of network connectivity to limit the possibility of lateral 
attack propagation.

•  When an internal attack moves laterally inside an organization, visibility and 

intelligence from perimeter devices show no evidence of malicious activity. Without 
this visibility, it is impossible for security teams to effectively secure the network.  

Juniper Networks® Software-Defined Secure Network (SDSN) offers a holistic approach 
that addresses these security concerns. Specifically, Juniper’s SDSN delivers: 

•  Pervasive Security: Juniper’s SDSN enables pervasive security across the entire 
network using switches, routers, and security devices—physical and virtual—for 
on-premise scenarios, leveraging SDN solutions such as Juniper Networks Contrail 
to orchestrate networking functionality where needed, including, in the future, 
applications hosted in the cloud. Each network element can also act as a security 
sensor, providing visibility into and intelligence about intra- and inter-network 
communications. 

•  User Intent-Based Policy: A simplified policy framework based on business-oriented 

items such as users, user groups, geographic locations, devices, sites, tenants, 
applications, and threats, this solution allows switches, routers, firewalls, and other 
network devices to work in concert by sharing data and resources, orchestrating 
remediation actions within the network. 

•  Threat Intelligence Aggregation: Juniper’s SDSN provides the ability to aggregate 

threat information from multiple local (such as security information and event 
management), cloud-based (such as Sky Advanced Threat Prevention), and even 
third-party threat detection solutions. 

Policy Enforcer, a component of Junos® Space Security Director, provides a simpler user 
intent-based threat management policy modification and distribution tool that allows 
updated policies to be deployed on Juniper Networks EX Series Ethernet Switches and QFX 
Series switches, as well Juniper virtual and physical SRX Series Services Gateways. 

1

Data SheetArchitecture and Key Components
Secure Network

Policy Enforcer provides an abstraction called the Secure 
Network that includes perimeter firewalls as well as switches 
that connect applications and users. The Secure Network acts 
as a coherent system representing a specific location, such as a 
branch office, and the security and networking devices deployed 
at that location, detecting network activity and enforcing 
specified policies. An additional abstraction called Policy 
Enforcement Groups, representing business entities such as users 
and applications, support network-independent user intent-
oriented policies.

Advanced Threat Prevention

Juniper’s cloud-based Sky Advanced Threat Prevention solution 
provides multiple threat feeds, including: 

•  Command and Control (C&C), which identifies known 

malicious command and control sites

•  Geo IP, which identifies the geographical locations of 

different entities on the Internet

•  Malware, which identifies known malware threats

• 

Infected host, which provides a list of infected internal hosts 
based on advanced machine learning techniques 

The Policy Enforcer natively integrates with Sky Advanced Threat 
Prevention, orchestrating security workflows to protect both 
perimeter-oriented traffic as well as lateral threat propagation 
within the network. It also provides security operators with the 
granular control required to take automated remediation actions 
depending upon the severity of the threat. These can include 
perimeter firewall-related actions like deny or log traffic, or 
network-related actions like quarantine of infected hosts. 

Infected Host Tracking

The mobility of infected endpoints and the resulting change in 
network IP addresses can easily circumvent security in perimeter-
only protection architectures. When an endpoint IP address gets 
reassigned due to user mobility, Policy Enforcer keeps track of 
infected host movement and enforces consistent security both 
pre- and post-mobility, delivering a coherent system that makes 
it difficult to circumvent security policies. 

VMware NSX Support 

Security Director Policy Enforcer integrates with VMware NSX for 
micro-segmentation use cases, allowing enterprises to configure 
a single policy covering both physical and virtual SRX Series 
firewalls deployed on the perimeter, as well as vSRX virtual 
firewalls natively integrated with NSX for east-west traffic inside 
the data center.

Custom Threat Feed Management

Federal, financial, retail, and other security-sensitive customers 
subscribe to custom threat feeds from different sources to keep 
up with the ever-changing threat landscape. In addition, Security 
Information and Event Management (SIEM), honeypots, and 
other security analytics solutions provide threat feeds to the 
security teams. Policy Enforcer exposes a RESTful API that these 
custom feeds can leverage when enforcing relevant controls 
across the secure network.

Extensible SDSN Ecosystem

Policy Enforcer supports an extensible framework whereby 
third party security vendors can integrate and deliver advanced 
security capabilities. Scenarios include integration with 
third-party NAC vendors for threat remediation on endpoints 
connected to non-Juniper networking equipment and integration 
with endpoint security vendors for threat remediation directly at 
the infected endpoint level, among others.

Features and Benefits
Table 1: Policy Enforcer Features and Benefits 

Description

Benefits

Blocks traffic based on threat information 
provided by Sky Advanced Threat Prevention

Feature

Traffic Blocking

Infected Host Tracking

Addresses change of common network 
identity-related issues due to user and 
application mobility

Custom Threat Feed

Monitoring Dashboards

Integrates custom/third-party threat feeds into 
the SDSN framework for automated incident 
response

Offers threat-related dashboards for easy 
identification of the entire network's threat 
posture

RESTful APIs for Automation  Provides RESTful APIs that can be used in 

conjunction with automation tools

In addition to blocking traffic from infected entities on the 
perimeter firewalls, customers can take network-oriented 
actions like quarantining to contain lateral threat movement 
inside the network.

Enforces consistent security policies for the entities even 
when the underlying network identity (such as IP address) 
changes for the infected hosts. The secure network tracks 
infected host movement across the network to identify 
attempts to circumvent security controls.

Leverages existing customer investments in trusted third-
party threat feeds to enforce controls using Juniper solutions.

Allows customers to clearly see the threats entering their 
network, as well as infected endpoints, at any time.

Automates configuration and management of physical, 
logical, or virtual SRX Series devices, and the security 
features on EX Series and QFX Series switches. 

2

Data SheetPolicy EnforcerSpecifications
Table 2 captures the Sky Advanced Threat Prevention threat feeds supported on different versions of Juniper SRX Series Services 
Gateways in the latest release of Policy Enforcer. 

Table 2: Supported Sky Advanced Threat Prevention Threat Feeds on SRX Series Devices 

Models/Platform

vSRX: 2 VCPUs, 4 GB RAM  
(server requirements)

SRX4100, SRX4200

Junos Software Version

Supported Threat Feeds

Junos 15.1X49-D60 and above

CC, AntiMalware, Infected Hosts, GEO IP

Junos 15.1X49-D65 and above

CC, AntiMalware, Infected Hosts, GEO IP

SRX340, SRX345, SRX550M, SRX1500

Junos 15.1X49-D60 and above

CC, AntiMalware, Infected Hosts, GEO IP

SRX5400, SRX5600, SRX5800

Junos 15.1X49-D62 and above

CC, AntiMalware, Infected Hosts, GEO IP

SRX550, SRX650, SRX1400

Junos 12.1X46-D25 and above

CC, GEO IP

Similarly, different modes of Policy Enforcer deployments are supported on different Juniper EX Series and QFX Series switch 
platforms as shown in Table 3. 

Table 3: Supported Policy Enforcer Deployment Modes on EX Series and QFX Series Devices

Models

EX2200, EX3300,  EX4200

EX4300, EX9200

EX2300, EX3400 

QFX5100, QFX5200

Junos Software Version

Junos 15.1R1.5 and above

Supported Policy Enforcer Modes

Sky ATP with PE (part of Secure Fabric)

Junos 14.1X53-D30 and above

Sky ATP with PE (part of Secure Fabric)

Junos 15.1X53-D50 and above

Sky ATP with PE (part of Secure Fabric)

Junos 14.1X53-D40 and above

Sky ATP with PE (part of Secure Fabric)

Policy Enforcer supports threat remediation for end points connected to third-party switch platforms as shown in Table 4.  

Table 4: Supported Third-Party Switch Platforms

Models

Cisco 2960s* 

Cisco 3850*

Cisco WLC 2504* 

Software Version

12.2(55)SE7

03.02.01.SE

8.2.151.0

Supported Policy Enforcer Modes

Sky ATP with PE (part of Secure Fabric)

Sky ATP with PE (part of Secure Fabric)

Sky ATP with PE (part of Secure Fabric)

* Requires 802.x-enabled network devices with Aruba Clearpass, Cisco ISE, or Pulse Secure as primary radius server.

Policy Enforcer integration with VMware NSX requires the following components detailed in Table 5.  

Software Version

Supported Policy Enforcer Modes

6.3.1

6.0.0

15.1X49-D100

Micro-segmentation with vSRX

Micro-segmentation with vSRX

Micro-segmentation with vSRX

Table 5: VMware NSX Support

Models

VMware NSX 

VMware vCenter and ESXi

vSRX version

Client Browser Support

Security Director and Policy Enforcer are best viewed on the 
following browsers: 

•  Google Chrome v.54x and above 

• 

Internet Explorer v.11 on Windows 7 

•  Firefox v.46 and above 

VMware Version
Junos Space works with VMware vSphere 4.0 and above.

Junos Operating System Software 
The SRX Series Services Gateways run Junos OS software. Junos 
Space Security Director runs on Juniper devices running Junos OS 
10.3 and later releases.

Junos Space Network Management Platform
Junos Space Security Director 16.1 runs on Junos Space 16.1.

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

3

Data SheetPolicy EnforcerOrdering Information
Junos Space Appliance

Junos Space Virtual Appliance includes the complete Junos 
Space software package as well as the Junos OS operating 
system. It requires users to create a virtual machine in order 
to deploy the appliance. The recommended specifications for 
the virtual machine are identical to the specifications of the 
physical appliance. See www.juniper.net/documentation/en_US/
junos-space14.1/topics/concept/junos-space-virtual-appliance-
overview.html. 

Product Number

Description

JA2500-A-BSE

Base Appliance

Policy Enforcer

The Policy Enforcer software is licensed based on the number of 
networking and security devices you will manage in the Secure 
Network. For example, if you will be managing up to 20 SRX 
Series firewalls and 80 EX Series switches, then you would 
purchase a single license for SDSN-PE-100. Note: You do not 
need to purchase a separate license for high availability (HA).

The following licenses enable customers to procure both Policy 
Enforcer as well as Security Director. These licenses are for 
customers who do not have Security Director.

Product Number

Description

SDSN-PE-50

SDSN-PE-100

SDSN-PE-500

SDSN-PE-1000

Policy Enforcer for 50 networking and security 
devices. Includes Security Director entitlement.

Policy Enforcer for 100 networking and security 
devices. Includes Security Director entitlement.

Policy Enforcer for 500 networking and 
security devices. Includes Security Director 
entitlement.

Policy Enforcer for 1000 networking and 
security devices. Includes Security Director 
entitlement.

Existing Security Director customers interested in Policy Enforcer 
as an add-on should use the following licenses:

Product Number

Description

SDSN-PE-ADD-
ON-50

SDSN-PE-ADD-
ON-100

SDSN-PE-ADD-
ON-500

SDSN-PE-ADD-
ON-1K

Policy Enforcer add-on license for 50 
networking and security devices for existing 
Security Director deployments

Policy Enforcer add-on license for 100 
networking and security devices for existing 
Security Director deployments

Policy Enforcer add-on license for 500 
networking and security devices for existing 
Security Director deployments

Policy Enforcer add-on license for 1000 
networking and security devices for existing 
Security Director deployments

Policy Enforcer in non-SDSN mode can also function as a threat 
intelligence platform that aggregates and distributes Command 
and Control (CC) feeds, GeoIP feeds, and custom feeds. In this 
mode, the advanced user intent-based policy is not applicable. 
Similar functionality was first introduced by the Juniper Networks 
Spotlight Secure product; Policy Enforcer will support such 
functionality moving forward.  Additional information can be 
found on the Spotlight Secure data sheet.   

Existing Spotlight Secure customers using Security Director 
15.1 or earlier, and new customers who want to use the “feed-
only” functionality, will need to install the Policy Enforcer virtual 
machine (a free download) and Security Director 16.1. Currently 
available Spotlight Secure licenses will be valid for such 
deployments and can be purchased separately. Existing Spotlight 
Secure customers can reuse the licenses at no additional cost 
and without requiring any licensing-related procedures.

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks challenges the status quo with products, 
solutions and services that transform the economics of 
networking. Our team co-innovates with customers and partners 
to deliver automated, scalable and secure networks with agility, 
performance and value. Additional information can be found at 
Juniper Networks or connect with Juniper on Twitter and Facebook.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2017 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Juniper, and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice. APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetPolicy Enforcer1000602-004-EN   May 2017EXPLORE JUNIPERGet the App.