Junos Network Secure

Product Overview

Product Overview. Junos Network 
Secure delivers stateful firewall 
services integrated with the 
MXSeries 3D Universal Edge 
Routers to provide protection 
for the service provider and 
enterprise network, as well as 
a revenue-generating managed 
service that protects customer 
infrastructure.

Product Description
Juniper Networks® Junos® Network Secure provides a per-flow state table and performs packet 
inspection, dropping packets that do not comply with the protocol state. Junos Network Secure 
includes attack detection, which provides anomaly-based attack detection and protection.

Juniper Networks MX Series 3D Universal Edge Routers use Junos Network Secure to 
track and control the flow of traffic. The stateful firewall capabilities of Junos Network 
Secure provide an extra layer of security by using state information derived from past 
communications and other applications to make dynamic control decisions for new 
communication attempts. Junos Network Secure groups relevant flows into conversations. 
A flow is identified by the following five properties:

•  Source address

•  Source port

•  Destination address

•  Destination port

•  Protocol 

Architecture and Key Components
The MX Series 3D Universal Edge Routers Portfolio
The MX Series portfolio of Ethernet services routers is the industry leader for carrier Ethernet 
capacity, density and performance. Optimized for emerging Ethernet network architectures 
and services, the MX Series is purpose-built for the most demanding carrier and enterprise 
applications, and it leverages Juniper Networks Junos operating system to enable carriers 
and enterprises to seamlessly and cost-effectively deploy Ethernet and accelerate their next-
generation network deployments. By combining a best-in-class hardware platform with the 
reliability and service flexibility of Junos OS, the MX Series delivers a combination of features 
and capabilities previously unattainable in carrier Ethernet deployments.

Multiservices Cards (MS-MPC, MS-MIC)
MS-MPCs and MS-MICs are next-generation, advanced service modules for Juniper 
Networks® MX Series 3D Universal Edge Routers. They deliver the performance, services, 
and scalability that are critical to today’s advanced Ethernet services edge and broadband 
edge networks. MS-MPCs are full slot modules that supply hardware acceleration for an 
array of packet processing-intensive services for the MX2020, MX2010, MX960, MX480, 
and MX240 3D Universal Edge Routers. The MS-MIC is based on Juniper’s MIC card 
hardware form and can be inserted in the MX5, MX10, MX40, and MX80 3D Universal Edge 
Routers, as well as the MPC1, MPC2, and MPC3 cards. 

These cards offer flexible support for stateful firewall, Network Address Translation (NAT), 
IPsec, anomaly detection, flow monitoring and accounting, and tunnel services. This wide array 
of services enables service providers and enterprises to secure their network infrastructure; 
collect rich statistics for billing, capacity planning, and security purposes; and create new 
services, all with a single module. 

1

Your ideas. Connected.™

Data SheetFeatures and Benefits
Junos Network Secure can be used to provide stateful firewall 
services integrated with the MX Series 3D Universal Edge Routers 
to provide protection for the service provider and enterprise 
network, as well as a revenue-generating managed service that 
protects customer infrastructure. Traffic from any ingress port 
can be classified and routed to the stateful firewall and then 
either dropped or forwarded from the proper egress port. This 
integration allows customers to eliminate external firewalls that 
consume router ports and additional management resources. 
Alternately, the integrated firewall function can be used as a first 
line of defense in a layered security architecture and can offload 
bulk stateful filtering from the standalone firewall. 

Junos Network Secure evaluates packets in the context of the 
specific flows to which they belong and performs IP packet 
integrity checks, enabling the MX Series to identify and isolate 
malicious payloads slipped into active data streams. It also 
performs statistical modeling to identify unusual traffic patterns 
such as denial of service/distributed denial of service (DoS/
DDoS), network scanning or probing. This powerful solution 
identifies and isolates a wide range of attacks including DOS 
attacks (such as SYN flood); network-level attacks such as IP 
fragmentation or Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) “ping 
of death” attacks; and transport layer attacks such as port scans 
or teardrop attacks.

•  Higher layer state checks including TCP

•  Detection and protection against a variety of types of attacks  

(see following)

•  Tracking of “Top Talkers” based on sessions or bandwidth 
usage based on particular flows, src/dst IP addresses and 
endpoint pairs

•  Anomaly tables for tracking sites under attack or potential 

hackers

•  Support for application layer gateway (ALG) algorithms

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

Ordering Information 

Model Number

Description

MS-MIC-16G

MS-MIC with 16 GB of memory, occupies single 
MIC slot on MX5, MX10, MX40, and MX80 
3D Universal Edge Routers, as well as on the 
MPC1, MPC2, and MPC3 cards for the MX2020, 
MX2010, MX960, MX480, and MX240 3D 
Universal Edge Router.

MS-MPC with 128 GB of memory (32 GB 
per NPU) occupies a single slot in MX2020, 
MX2010, MX960, MX480, and MX240 3D 
Universal Edge Routers

The stateful firewall function also supports ALGs for special 
handling of unique protocols such as H.323, FTP, Session 
Initiation Protocol (SIP) and ICMP.

MS-MPC

Specifications and Approvals
For a complete list of supported software features, please 
consult the Junos OS documentation at www.juniper.net/
techpubs/software. 

Junos Network Secure offers the following firewall services:

•  Stateful packet filtering (IPv6)—Maintain per-flow state 

table, allow packets matching criteria

•  Packet inspection for a variety of IP values (for example, 

length, checksum, fragmentation)

JNSFW 

Junos Network Secure [Stateful Firewall]

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2015 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetJunos Network Secure1000458-001-EN   Mar 2015