SRC Series Session and  
Resource Control Software

Product Overview

In order to offer differentiated 
broadband subscriber plans and 
ensure high-quality delivery of 
IPTV, video on demand (VOD), 
gaming, and multimedia services, 
service providers must allocate 
and control network resources 
in real time.  Juniper Networks 
Session and Resource Control 
(SRC) software elegantly 
addresses these requirements with 
high performance and reliability at 
carrier scale. Building on Juniper’s 
long-standing technology and 
market leadership, the advanced 
SRC Series software offers a 
comprehensive, customizable, and 
automated policy management, 
subscriber management, 
bandwidth management, and 
resource control solution.

 

Product Description 
Service providers are placing significant emphasis on and making significant investments in 
policy and control as the deployment of high-value multiplay services accelerates and the 
evolution to Third-Generation Partnership Project IP Multimedia Subsystem (3GPP IMS) 
and the European Telecommunications Standardization Institute’s Telecoms and Internet 
Converged Services and Protocols for Advanced Networks (ETSI TISPAN) architectures 
continues. Key policy and control functions include policy management; subscriber 
management and authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA); bandwidth 
management; and network resource control. The Juniper Networks Session and Resource 
Control portfolio provides these critical functions, harmonizing subscribers and applications 
with the network layer and integrating with operations support systems and business 
support systems (OSS/BSS). 

The Juniper Networks Session and Resource Control (SRC) portfolio consists of 
sophisticated software that extends Juniper’s network layer expertise to the policy and 
control layer.  The SRC Series of advanced software modules—the SRC Policy Engine, 
the SRC Diameter Gateway, the SRC SOAP Gateway, and the SRC Volume Tracking 
Application—run on Commonly Off The Shelf (COTS) hardware and use widely adopted 
standards-based open interfaces to maximize interoperability with the broadest range of 
elements, applications, and platforms. 

At the network layer, SRC Series software modules are fully integrated with Juniper 
Networks routing platforms and security solutions, extending support to third-party 
network elements via RADIUS CoA (change of authorization) and scripting services.

SRC Series software modules integrate easily with external repositories and related 
systems that support billing, customer care, order entry, provisioning, billing, and security. 

SRC Series gateway modules use standards-based interfaces to integrate with a broad set 
of service layer applications, enabling application-driven control of network resources. 

The SRC Series software modules offer a carrier-grade policy and control solution 
that, together with Juniper routing and security products and third-party applications, 
support the delivery of high-value, differentiated services across multivendor network 
infrastructures.  This enables a smooth migration to next-generation network architectures 
such as Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC) based on 3GPP Gx, giving Juniper customers 
a broad set of open, agile, and customizable policy and control options to address their 
diverse and unique business and technical requirements.

1

Data SheetArchitecture and Key Components
SRC Series Software

The SRC Series advanced software consists of:

•  The SRC Policy Engine (SRC PE), which maintains a 

directory of customer, network, and service configuration 
information that it uses to enable automated, policy-
based service and subscriber provisioning. The SRC PE also 
allocates network resources in response to subscriber and 
application requests, to ensure quality of service (QoS) and 
quality of experience (QoE) and to protect the quality of 
previously accepted sessions.

 

It collects usage information on a per-subscriber or per-
service basis in order to implement usage-based billing, 
fair usage, or reporting. The SRC-PE integrates with a 
variety of Juniper products, including MX Series and E 
Series platforms, as well as third party network elements, 
leveraging protocols such as Diameter, COPS-PR, RADIUS/
CoA, XML, and scripting.

•  The SRC Diameter Gateway (SRC DG), which provides 
a Diameter interface that enables the SRC PE to perform 
Access Resource and Admission Control Functions (A-RACF), 
and to provision policies for Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) 
services, across the IP/MPLS network infrastructure. 

•  3GPP-Gateway: SRC Series software can interface with 
third-party PCRFs leveraging 3GPP Gx reference point. In 
this architecture, the SRC Series can mediate between 
PCRF and non-3GPP compliant devices.

• 

IMS-Gateway: SRC Series software can perform Access 
Resource and Admission Control Functions (A-RACF), 
integrating with SPDF over Rq reference interface. The 
SRC Series provides network resource management and 
dynamic policies for multimedia services.

•  The SRC SOAP Gateway (SRC SG), which uses the 

SOAP Protocol to provide a simple, straightforward, and 
standards-based interface that allows non-SRC Series 
applications to integrate with, and make use of, SRC Series 
software.

•  The SRC Volume Tracking Application (SRC VTA), which 

tracks subscribers, sessions, and applications based on 
granular, customer configurable thresholds for volumes 
and durations, enabling fair resource usage. The SRC VTA 
supports tiered service offerings and can invoke policy-
driven actions based on predefined thresholds, including 
rate limiting of traffic, activation of additional resources, 
and removal of abusive users.

Features and Benefits
Features

Prepackaged solution

Intelligent call admission control

Service-level accounting

Flexible service activation 

Open interfaces 

Advantages

Benefits

Easy to dimension, test, install, configure, 
upgrade, troubleshoot, and spare

Considers multiple criteria (subscriber 
privileges, service profile, application 
requirements, network availability) to make 
per-session admission control decisions

Simplifies the operating environment

Ensures high service quality for requested and 
preexisting sessions, and provides subscriber 
QoE

Tracks and accounts for dynamically initiated 
services for OSS/BSS handoff

Supports unique service models

Provides identity-based, application-based, 
and subscriber self-service selection 

Integrates with third-party network elements 
and applications to enable end-to-end, 
application-driven network resource control 

Provides mass service customization, 
stronger customer relationships, and 
competitive differentiation without increasing 
operating complexity or costs 

Enables application-driven resource control 
over multivendor networks 

Subscriber self-provisioning and service 
creation tools 

Provides policy-driven subscriber and service 
automation at carrier scale 

Enables decreased time to market and 
reduced costs to roll out new services 

Virtualized software (vSRC)

Takes advantage of commonly available off-
the-shelf hardware.

Provides flexibility to customize and expand 
based on need and current conditions.

2

Data SheetSRC Series Session and Resource Control SoftwareUse Cases 
The SRC Series Session and Resource Control Software supports a suite of applications that enable the creation of myriad services limited 
only by the creativity of service providers, system integrators, and the enterprise. Several examples are described here.

B

SRC SOAP Gateway

C

SRC Policy Engine

MX960

MX960

MX960

Access Node

A

Residential
Gateway

A

B

MX960

SRC SOAP Gateway

SRC Diameter

 Gateway

SRC Policy Engine

C

MX960

Voice

MX960

Access Node

Multiplay Services: Assured Video 

When a subscriber requests a video service (A), 
the video server notifies the SRC Policy Engine 
via the SRC SOAP Gateway (B). The SRC Policy 
Engine monitors the network (C) to determine 
whether adequate resources are available 
to support the request. If the resources exist, 
the SRC Policy Engine reserves them (C) and 
notifies the video server to initiate the service 
(B); if sufficient resources are not available, the 
SRC Policy Engine can resize existing LSPs or 
create new ones to handle the additional traffic, 
or gracefully reject the request and notify the 
subscriber, depending on the service provider’s 
defined policy. The SRC Policy Engine also 
dynamically rate-limits other services that the 
subscriber may concurrently consume to assure 
high video QoE.

Multiplay Services: Assured Voice 

In this example, the service provider has 
implemented a multiplay network that supports 
both IMS and non-IMS services over a converged 
infrastructure. The policy and control solution 
consists of the SRC Policy Engine, the SRC SOAP 
Gateway, and the SRC Diameter Gateway, in 
addition to OSCP partner products. Video and 
data applications communicate with the SRC 
Policy Engine via the SRC SOAP Gateway (A), and 
voice over IP (VoIP) service requests are conveyed 
to the SRC Policy Engine by a Session Border 
Controller via the SRC Diameter Gateway (B). The 
SRC Policy Engine provides traffic engineering for 
VoIP and video sessions based on real-time LSP 
awareness and can allocate, resize, and create 
network resources in response to application 
requirements (C). The sessions are gracefully 
rejected if sufficient resources are unavailable.

3

Data SheetSRC Series Session and Resource Control SoftwareOSS

OSS

Partner Product

C

D

SRC Volume

Tracking Application

SRC SOAP Gateway

SRC Policy Engine

B

Self Select

Service Options
Basic Internet
Internet PLUS
Tubo-charge
Time Usage
Volume Usage

Service Portal

Internet

MX960

MX960

MX960

Access Node

Tiered Access Services and 
Subscriber Self-Provisioning 

In this example, the service provider uses 
the SRC Policy Engine with the built-in, self-
service portal, the SRC SOAP Gateway, and 
the SRC Volume Tracking Application to offer 
tiered subscriber selectable service packages 
based on traffic volume, connection speed, 
and duration. Subscribers use the self-
service portal (A) to make a service selection 
that the SRC Policy Engine configures on 
the network (B). A partner application 
monitoring the xDSL train rate is integrated 
into the solution via the SRC SOAP Gateway 
(C). Changes in the train rate trigger the 
SRC Policy Engine to make changes to the 
subscriber’s service profile. The SRC Volume 
Tracking Application monitors and accounts 
for subscriber use, and this accounting 
information is also provided to OSS/BSS 
accounting, billing, and customer care 
systems (D).

Specifications

CPU Requirements:

•  You must allocate at least one CPU core for virtualized  

SRC Series software. For comparison purposes, here are  
the equivalent CPU characteristics of previously available  
C Series hardware:

 -   C2000: 4

 -   C3000: 8

 -   C5000: 24

Storage: 

•  The qcow2 image and vmdk image (of subtype 

monolithicSparse) grow in size up to 250 GB when used on 
a virtual machine, so there must be more than 250 GB of 
disk space available in the host operating system to use the 
qcow2 or vmdk image. If using an SRC Series iso image, it 
is recommended that 250 GB of disk space be allocated to 
the virtualized SRC Series software to ensure enough space 
is available for system and component logs. 

Network

•  1GbE or 10GbE interface card (one or more)

Hypervisors

•  VMware, Centos 6.5 KVM

Image Formats:

•  qcow2

• 

iso

•  vmdk

• 

img (for installation on legacy C Series C3000 and C5000 
hardware)

Heap Memory Requirements:

SRC 
Component

Default Heap 
Size for vSRC

Heap Size 
Adjustable

Stack Size

ACP

64 MB

SNMP agent

160 MB

Web 
application 
server

CLI

Diameter 
server

External 
subscriber 
monitor

616 MB

200 MB

600 MB

160 MB

3GPP gateway

200 MB

IMS services 
gateway

200 MB

JPS

License server

NIC

SAE

C-Web 
interface

400 MB

1 GB or less 
than ¼ of 
physical 
memory

128 MB

70% of free 
memory

200 MB

Yes

No

No

No

No

Yes

No

No

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

No

1024 KB

1024 KB

1024 KB

1024 KB

1024 KB

1024 KB

1024 KB

1024 KB

1024 KB

1024 KB

1024 KB

228 KB

1024 KB

4

Data SheetSRC Series Session and Resource Control SoftwareAbout Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks challenges the status quo with products, 
solutions and services that transform the economics of 
networking. Our team co-innovates with customers and partners 
to deliver automated, scalable and secure networks with agility, 
performance and value. Additional information can be found at 
Juniper Networks or connect with Juniper on Twitter and Facebook.

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

Ordering Information
Product Number

Description

SRC-PE-SW-VSRC

Virtualized SRC Policy Engine Software

SRC-COA-LIC

SRC-PE-ACP-LIC

COA engine licenses for third-party support;  
one license required per server

Feature license for admission control plug-In 
on virtualized SRC; one required per SRC 
Policy Engine

SRC-PE-GY

Gy interface

SRC-PE1000K-LIC

1,000,000 service session license for SRC 
Policy Engine

SRC-PE500K-LIC 

SRC-PE200K-LIC 

SRC-PE100K-LIC 

SRC-PE50K-LIC

SRC-PEACP-LIC

SRC-CXKDG-LIC

SRC-CXKSG-LIC

500,000 service session license for SRC  
Policy Engine

200,000 service session license for SRC  
Policy Engine

100,000 service session license for SRC  
Policy Engine

50,000 service session license for SRC  
Policy Engine

Feature license for admission control plug-in; 
one required per SRC Policy Engine

SRC Diameter (A-RACF Rq Interface) gateway 
software license for use with SRC software 
(required for Gx interface)

SRC SOAP Gateway software license for use 
SRC software; one per instance running SOAP 
GWrunning SRC SOAP Gateway software

SRC-VTA-APP

SRC Volume Tracking application software 
lifetime license, for Solaris platforms

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2016 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetSRC Series Session and Resource Control Software1000195-003-EN   Sept 2016