Junos Space Security Director with 
NSM Import QuickStart Service

Service Overview

Juniper Networks Junos Space 
is a comprehensive network 
management solution that 
simplifies and automates 
the management of Juniper’s 
switching, routing, and security 
devices. It provides a centralized 
management plane for a single 
point-of-contact into the network 
and a common management 
platform for managing and 
creating applications that meet 
specific needs.

This QuickStart service enables 
you to reduce the time to value 
from your Juniper product 
investment by providing the 
expert assistance of an onsite 
Professional Services engineer 
who will help plan and install 
the application, as well as add 
devices to Junos Space Security 
Director and import  
the configuration. 

Service Description 
The Juniper Networks® Junos® Space Security Director with NSM Import QuickStart Service 
provides the expert assistance of an onsite Professional Services engineer to help you 
rapidly get the most value from your Juniper investment. During the onsite knowledge 
transfer process, your Professional Services consultant will provide expert guidance and 
learning resources to prepare your staff to install, configure, and deploy your Junos Space 
solution in day-to-day operational scenarios going forward.

Built into Juniper Networks QuickStart services is a time-tested, industry-standard 
approach (plan, build, and operate) that has been proven and refined with clients 
throughout the world’s most competitive industries. The Space Security Director with NSM 
Import QuickStart Service provides rapid value through a logical, three-phase process: Plan 
(design and requirements review); Build (configure Space and import Juniper Networks 
SRX Series Service Gateways from NSM .xdif file); and Operate (knowledge transfer with 
integrated workflow review).

Phase 1: Plan

During this phase, Juniper Networks Professional Services experts collect information from 
your organization and plan the installation with the following deliverables: 

•  Conduct a project kick-off conference call with your technical team to define your 

product, application, and user requirements, as well as your topology

•  Based on the findings, make recommendations about deployment method:

 - High availability option

 - Juniper Networks product family

 - Normal workflow and any special setup needed based on applications or resources

Phase 2: Build

In this phase, the Professional Services Consultant works onsite to configure the Junos 
Space instance(s) (either physical appliance(s) or virtual instance) for use in the 
production environment, and also helps your technical staff become familiar with its setup 
and operation.

Customary tasks performed in this phase include:

•  Configure the system 

 -  Apply initial management configuration and license 

 -  Update code as required 

 -  Install additional applications (Note: Only the Space application fabric and 

Security Director configuration are included in this project.)

1

Data Sheet•  Create discovery rule or directly import device into Junos 

•  Demonstrate basic discovery techniques and inventory tools 

Space inventory

•  Demonstrate adding and importing device configuration 

•  Add devices to Security Director and import configuration 

into Security Director

from a single NSM domain

Phase 3: Operate

During this phase, the Juniper Networks Professional Services 
Consultant will:

•  Provide a review of the configuration and perform a 

knowledge transfer session of the Space solution for staff

•  Demonstrate and explain basic element manipulation and 

policy tools 

 Knowledge transfer is intended as a review of the customer’s 
localized implementation and configuration options. It is not 
meant to be a substitute for formalized training.

Junos Space Security Director with NSM Import QuickStart Service Features and Benefits
Feature

Feature Description

Benefit

Prequalification and recommendations

Information is collected about your 
requirements to develop a customized Junos 
Space installation plan.

•  Minimizes time and effort to develop 

installation plan and receive quality security 
information

Onsite Juniper Professional Services 
engineer

Onsite engineer deploys and configures the 
Space solution at your operations center.

Onsite knowledge transfer 

Professional Services engineer covers topics 
such as basic configuration and troubleshooting, 
additional feature configuration, or other 
appropriate topics as requested by your staff.

•  Accelerates, and optimizes the time to value of 

your Junos Space solution

•  Reduces or eliminates the cost of log 

extensions and tuning deployment

•  Accelerates the availability of new Space 

solution

•  Accelerates readiness of employees
•  Creates fully informed IT staff for improved 

operational efficiencies

Service Specifications
Juniper Responsibilities

Customer Responsibilities

Provide a Juniper Professional Services Consultant who will:
•  Configure and deploy Junos Space solution at the 

•  Complete the Space deployment questionnaire 
•  Provide a designated project manager or point of contact to interface 

organization’s operations center 

•  Provide onsite knowledge transfer 

with Juniper

•  Network on day-to-day issues and coordination of resources 
•  Provide external access to the Internet, internal access to your intranet, 
and access to the network equipment that the consultant will support
•  Provide access to applications, databases, and appropriate technical 

resources for consultant to perform duties successfully

•  Place and secure the equipment to be installed in the appropriate rack
•  Provide all power and interface cabling to the equipment
• 
• 

 Perform .xdif export of NSM database
 Transfer .xdif export to Space system

Exclusions
This QuickStart service is for the initial deployment of Junos 
Space only and subject to the following limitations:

•  Service is limited to a 2-node Junos Space Network 

Management Platform implementation with HA [optional].

•  Unless provided prior to start of project, workflow includes 

SRX Series inventory process, Security Director import of 
SRX configuration, , basic device management, security 
policy, and element change/add/delete. All other workflow 
elements are excluded. 

•  The service is limited to two discovery rules or 25 direct 

device additions to Space inventory, and up to 25 devices 
added to Security Director. 

•  All devices imported from NSM .xdif file must be from a 

single domain.

•  Only NSM device import is supported; removal of device(s) 

from NSM or any other device import method is not 
included in this service.

•  Up to 25 total devices can be added to Security Director.

Customized engagements are available to extend or expand a 
deployment. Please see your Juniper Networks representative for 
a quote.

2

Data SheetJunos Space Security Director with NSM Import QuickStart ServiceJuniper Consulting

As leaders in networks and security, Juniper Networks Professional 
Services consultants and engineers are uniquely qualified to 
assist service providers in designing, implementing, and optimizing 
security solutions. Our team appreciates the complexities and 
the subtleties inherent in large-scale internetwork design and can 
assist service providers and enterprises, or provide customized and 
integrated “turn-key” solutions. 

Juniper Networks Professional Services helps accelerate your 
network’s time to value, bringing revenue generating capabilities 
online faster for bigger productivity gains, faster rollouts of new 
business models and ventures, greater market reach, and higher 
levels of customer satisfaction. Your onsite staff will work closely 
with Juniper specialists, building operational capabilities and 
reducing your exposure to IT risks. As a result of our previous 
experience involving hundreds of customers around the world, 
Juniper Networks Professional Services is uniquely qualified 
to help you design, implement, and optimize your network 
for confident operation and rapid returns on infrastructure 
investments. These professionals understand today’s network 
and security demands and those that are just around the 
corner—for bandwidth efficiency, best-in-class security, solid 
reliability, and cost-effective scaling.

The use of Juniper’s consultants also avoids the requirement 
for you to provide the necessary technical, security audit and 
evaluation skills internally. The evaluation can be completed 
faster, as you are not forced to wait until internal resources 
become available, nor do you have to address the issue of 
conflicting project priorities.

Additional Services to Optimize  
Your Network 
A broad range of consulting and packaged services is available 
to help you enhance your network design and optimize your 
production environment along with the Junos Space Security 
Director with NSM Import QuickStart Service.

Services to consider in the early stages of your network review are:

•  Strategic Network Consulting: In the planning stage of 

your project, this service will assist you in determining 
a strategy for your network architecture and a plan to 
translate that strategy into an optimal solution. It is aimed 
at understanding your business requirements, determining 
the impact of proposed changes on your existing network 
infrastructure, and providing architectural guidance and 
recommendations to ensure that your network will be 
enhanced in a controlled manner.

•  High-Level Design: Implementing a new network 
or security project starts with an evaluation of the 
requirements and a detailed rendering of the architecture 

to be used. The High-Level Design service defines the 
topology, protocols, and equipment required, mapping the 
design to your needs.

•  Low-Level Design: Once the high-level design of a network 
is determined, the specifics need to be identified. The Low-
Level Design service identifies the optimal configuration 
and equipment needed to make your network a reality.

•  Testing Service: Prior to implementation of a new network, 

Juniper Networks Testing Service provides you with an 
opportunity to combine your knowledge of your network’s 
specific performance requirements with Juniper’s sound 
foundation in network design methodology and products 
to create a customized test environment that simulates 
your unique end-to-end deployment scenario. This lets 
you avoid the cost of creating and operating your own 
test labs, reduces your project risk, ensures a seamless 
implementation of new technology into your production 
environment, and accelerates your time to deployment.

•  Firewall Conversion Service: This service provides 

your organization with time tested firewall conversion 
methodologies and automated processes that minimize 
data entry errors. Our firewall conversion consultant 
delivers infrastructure and business analysis, as well as 
design, test, and deployment guidance.

•  Junos Space Security Director QuickStart Service: 

This service provides the expert assistance of an onsite 
engineer to help rapidly get the most value from your Junos 
Space product investment. During the onsite knowledge 
transfer process, your Professional Services Consultant will 
provide expert guidance and learning resources to prepare 
your staff to install, configure, and operate your Junos 
Space solution in day-to-day scenarios.

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

Ordering Information 
To order the Juniper Networks Junos Space Security Director with 
NSM Import QuickStart Service, or for additional information, 
please contact your Juniper account manager. Before the service 
begins, a statement of work (SOW) will be created outlining the 
scope of effort to be performed. 

3

Data SheetJunos Space Security Director with NSM Import QuickStart ServiceAbout Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks challenges the status quo with products, 
solutions and services that transform the economics of 
networking. Our team co-innovates with customers and partners 
to deliver automated, scalable and secure networks with agility, 
performance and value. Additional information can be found at 
Juniper Networks or connect with Juniper on Twitter and Facebook.

EXPLORE JUNIPER
Get the App.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2016 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetJunos Space Security Director with NSM Import QuickStart Service1000448-003-EN   Nov 2016