Juniper Secure Analytics  
Vulnerability Manager  

Product Overview

As a member of the JSA Series 
of Secure Analytics Appliances 
family, Juniper Secure Analytics 
Vulnerability Manager helps 
organizations minimize the 
chances of a network security 
breach by using a proactive 
approach to finding security 
weaknesses and mitigating 
potential risks. Using Juniper 
Secure Analytics Vulnerability 
Manager, organizations can 
conduct rapid network scans, 
discover and highlight high-risk 
vulnerabilities from a single 
integrated dashboard, and 
automate regulatory compliance 
with powerful collection, 
correlation, and reporting tools.

Product Description 
For many organizations, managing network vulnerabilities is a lesson in frustration. 
Vulnerability scans are typically conducted in response to compliance mandates, and 
they can reveal up to tens of thousands of exposures—depending upon network size. Scan 
results are often a complex puzzle of misconfigured devices, unpatched software, and 
outdated or obsolete systems. And security administrators must struggle to quickly identify 
and remediate or mitigate the exposures that pose the greatest risk.

At the same time, security breaches are dramatically increasing for all kinds of 
organizations. From e-commerce and social networking giants to healthcare, universities, 
banks, governments, and gaming sites, the breadth of breach targets is vast. While the 
number of disclosed vulnerabilities continues to rise, the number of incidents that result in 
the loss, theft, or exposure of personally identifiable information has been increasing at a 
rate of nearly 40 percent.

Juniper Secure Analytics Vulnerability Manager consolidates results from multiple 
vulnerability scanners, risk management solutions, and external threat intelligence 
resources, operating like a centralized control center to identify key security weaknesses 
that need to be addressed to prevent future attacks. It uses a proven vulnerability scanner 
to collect up-to-date results, but unlike other solutions, it leverages the capabilities of 
Juniper Networks® JSA Series Secure Analytics Appliances to present the data within the 
overall context of the network usage, security, and threat posture. 

Juniper Secure Analytics Vulnerability Manager helps security teams identify resource 
configuration issues, understand the impact of software patching schedules, and 
coordinate with intrusion prevention systems (IPS) to block open connections and 
establish continuous monitoring of systems that can’t otherwise be remediated—all 
from a single, integrated dashboard. By correlating vulnerability data with the JSA Series 
Secure Analytics family’s event and threat analysis capabilities, Juniper Secure Analytics 
Risk Manager device configuration and network traffic analysis, and external databases, 
including IBM X-Force threat intelligence, Juniper Secure Analytics Vulnerability Manager 
can help organizations build actionable plans for deploying their often constrained IT 
staffing resources. And since it is already integrated with the JSA Series Secure Analytics 
portfolio’s security intelligence platform, security teams have one less system to install, 
configure, and manage.

Your ideas. Connected.™

1

Data SheetArchitecture and Key Components
Juniper Secure Analytics Vulnerability Manager is helping redefine 
how IT security teams collect and use vulnerability assessment 
data—transforming a tedious monthly or quarterly scanning 
and reporting activity into an insightful, continuous monitoring 
program. Because its intuitive user interface provides complete 
visibility across dynamic, multilayered networks, organizations 
can now:

Using the same rules-based approach as is used across the JSA 
Series Secure Analytics product family, the Vulnerability Manager 
helps minimize false positives and it filters out vulnerabilities 
already classified as non-threatening. For example, applications 
may be installed on a server, but they may be inactive and 
therefore not a security risk; devices that appear exposed may 
actually be protected by a firewall; or endpoints that have 
vulnerabilities may already be scheduled for patching.

•  Select a dashboard view and click through related tabs 

to review security offenses, log events, network flows, 
asset statuses and configurations, reports, risks, and 
vulnerabilities

•  Create, edit, and save asset searches and scans for more 

intelligent monitoring

•  Make faster, more informed decisions with a prioritized, 

consolidated view of scan data

•  Help coordinate patching and virtual patching activities, and 

direct intrusion prevention systems (IPS) to block potential 
attack paths for maximum impact

Figure 1. Juniper Secure Analytics Vulnerability Manager provides 
a single, integrated dashboard for viewing multiple vulnerability 
assessment feeds and threat intelligence sources; security teams 

can quickly identify the exposures that pose the greatest risk.

Juniper Secure Analytics Vulnerability Manager includes an 
embedded scanning engine that can be set up to run both 
dynamic and periodic scans, providing near real-time visibility 
of weaknesses that could otherwise remain hidden. Leveraging 
passive asset discovery capabilities of the QFlow and Log 
Collector features in JSA Secure Analytics Appliances, any new 
asset appearing on the network can be immediately scanned. 
As a result, organizations can reduce their exposure to advanced 
threats between regular scanning cycles and help ensure 
compliance with the latest security regulations.

Juniper Secure Analytics Vulnerability Manager maintains a 
current network view of all discovered vulnerabilities, including 
details such as when the vulnerabilities were found, when they 
were last seen, what scan jobs reported the vulnerabilities, and to 
whom the vulnerability is assigned for remediation or mitigation. 
The software also presents historic views of daily, weekly, and 
monthly trends, and it can produce long-term trending reports, 
such as the month-by-month trend of Payment Card Industry 
(PCI) failure vulnerabilities discovered over the past year.

Stand-alone, independent vulnerability scanning solutions can take 
considerable time to scan large address spaces for assets, servers, 
and services, and their scan results can quickly become out-of-
date. These point solutions also require additional infrastructure 
and include different technologies for network, application, and 
database scanning—all requiring additional administration. And 
after identifying an often incomplete sea of vulnerabilities, the point 
solutions do not include any contextual information for helping 
security teams prioritize their tasks for remediation.

Thwart Advanced Threats

Unlike the random, brute-force attacks of the past, today’s 
organizations must guard against “advanced persistent threats”—
that is, a complex series of attacks that often take place over 
a prolonged timeframe. Using a range of tactics from zero-day 
exploits to custom malware to simply trolling for unpatched 
systems, these attackers consistently probe their targets using 
a “low-and-slow” approach until they find a security gap. 
Organizations can use more intelligent tools like Juniper Secure 
Analytics Vulnerability Manager to improve their defenses 
by regularly scanning and addressing as many high-impact 
vulnerabilities as possible.

Most vulnerability scanners simply identify large numbers of 
exposures and leave it up to security teams to understand 
the severity of risks. These tools are often not integrated with 
the existing security infrastructure and require additional 
manual effort to align with the current network topology, usage 
information, and security processes. Many of these tools are used 
simply for compliance, rather than as an integral part of a threat 
and security management program.

2

Data SheetJuniper Secure Analytics Vulnerability Manager Identifying high-priority vulnerabilities

X-Force

Attacks or threat sources Firewall

Address blocked

Intrusion prevention solutions – 
connection blocked

Endpoint managers – patch scheduled

Inactive application

Asset is vulnerable

Juniper Secure Analytics 
Vulnerability Manger: 
Real-time visibility and
automatic remediation

Figure 2. Juniper Secure Analytics Vulnerability Manager uses 
security intelligence to help filter vulnerabilities; this enables 

organizations to understand how to prioritize their remediation and 

mitigation activities.

With Juniper Secure Analytics Vulnerability Manager, 
organizations can:

•  Leverage existing appliance infrastructure and security 

intelligence data to seamlessly conduct automated scans 
for network vulnerabilities

•  Detect when new assets are added to the network, when  

assets start behaving abnormally, or when assets might be 
potentially compromised—using log events and network 
flow data—and perform immediate scans to help ensure 
protection and improve visibility

•  Help improve productivity by enabling security teams to 

focus on a small, manageable number of high-priority 
events, eliminating false positives and correlating results 
with network blocking activities

Address Compliance Mandates

Regulatory requirements are forcing organizations of all sizes 
to develop vulnerability management programs to help ensure 
proper control of sensitive IT assets. Juniper Secure Analytics 
Vulnerability Manager helps organizations facilitate compliance by 
conducting regular network scans and maintaining detailed audit 
trails. It categorizes each vulnerability with a severity rating and an 
exposure score. In addition to scanning assets both internally and 
externally, Juniper Secure Analytics Vulnerability Manager enables 
security teams to create tickets to manage remediation activities 
and specify exceptions with a full audit trail.

With Juniper Secure Analytics Vulnerability Manager, 
organizations can:

•  Orchestrate a high volume of concurrent assessments 

without disturbing normal network operations—multiple 
stakeholders can scan and rescan the network as needed 
for remediation verification

•  Summarize vulnerability assessments by day, week, and 

month for effective reporting and visibility of trends

•  Run scans from both inside and outside the network

•  Capture an audit trail of all vulnerability management 

activities, including discovery, assignments, notes, 
exceptions, and remediation

Extend Security Intelligence

Juniper Secure Analytics Vulnerability Manager combines 
the real-time security visibility of JSA Series Secure Analytics 
Appliances with the results of proven vulnerability scanning 
technology. As part of Juniper’s Secure Analytics architecture, 
Juniper Secure Analytics Vulnerability Manager can be quickly 
activated via a licensing key—requiring no additional hardware 
or software. This can result in considerable cost savings, since 
security teams do not normally have to deploy new technologies 
or learn a new interface; they can simply generate reports from 
within the familiar JSA Series Secure Analytics product family 
user interface.

Key integrations for Juniper Secure Analytics Vulnerability 
Manager include:

•  JSA Series Secure Analytics Appliances: Provides the 

appliance infrastructure for conducting network scans, 
the asset database for logging and tracking vulnerability 
management activities, the passive network detection 
capabilities for discovering newly added assets, and all the 
contextual security intelligence data needed to build and 
execute actionable vulnerability management plans

•  Juniper Secure Analytics Risk Manager: Reveals current 

and historical network connection data to show how 
vulnerabilities relate to the overall network topology—
including how firewall and IPS rules affect the exploitability 
of specific assets from internal and external threat sources

•  X-Force threat intelligence feed: Supplies up-to-date 

information on recommended fixes and security advice for 
active vulnerabilities, viruses, worms, and threats

Apply Proactive Security

In a world where no networks are truly secure, Juniper Secure 
Analytics Vulnerability Manager enables organizations to more 
effectively protect their environments using an extensive line of 
proactive defenses, including:

•  High-speed internal scanning, which helps preserve network 

performance and availability

3

Data SheetJuniper Secure Analytics Vulnerability Manager •  Support for discovery, non-authenticated, authenticated, and 

Open Vulnerability Assessment Language (OVAL) scans

•  External scanning capabilities to see the network from an 

attacker’s viewpoint and help facilitate compliance

•  Single-click investigations from dashboard screens and 
deep, rules-based, rapid searching capabilities to learn 
more about specific events or identify long-term trends

•  Suppression of acceptable, false positive, or otherwise non-

mitigated vulnerabilities from ongoing reporting

•  Vulnerability assignment and remediation life cycle 

management

•  Full audit trail for compliance reporting

Features and Benefits

•  Helps prevent security breaches by discovering and 

highlighting high-risk vulnerabilities from a single, integrated 
dashboard

•  Prioritizes remediation and mitigation activities by 

understanding the complete network context

•  Enables seamless integration with JSA Series Secure 

Analytics Appliances to get dynamic, up-to-date asset 
information for proactive vulnerability management

•  Enables rapid network scans—periodically or dynamically—

to find security weaknesses and minimize risks

•  Automates regulatory compliance with collection, 

correlation, and reporting

Juniper Networks Services and Support
Juniper Networks is the leader in performance-enabling services 
that are designed to accelerate, extend, and optimize your 
high-performance network. Our services allow you to maximize 
operational efficiency while reducing costs and minimizing 
risk, achieving a faster time to value for your network. Juniper 
Networks ensures operational excellence by optimizing the 
network to maintain required levels of performance, reliability, 
and availability. For more details, please visit www.juniper.net/us/
en/products-services. 

Ordering Information
To learn more about how Juniper Secure Analytics Vulnerability 
Manager can benefit your organization, please contact your 
Juniper Networks representative and visit www.juniper.net.

About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From 
devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, 
Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that 
transform the experience and economics of networking. The 
company serves customers and partners worldwide. Additional 
information can be found at www.juniper.net.

Corporate and Sales HeadquartersJuniper Networks, Inc. 1133 Innovation WaySunnyvale, CA 94089 USAPhone: 888.JUNIPER (888.586.4737)or +1.408.745.2000Fax: +1.408.745.2100www.juniper.net Copyright 2016 Juniper Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, Junos and QFabric are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered marks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners. Juniper Networks assumes no responsibility for any inaccuracies in this document. Juniper Networks reserves the right to change, modify, transfer, or otherwise revise this publication without notice.APAC and EMEA HeadquartersJuniper Networks International B.V.Boeing Avenue 2401119 PZ Schiphol-RijkAmsterdam, The NetherlandsPhone: +31.0.207.125.700Fax: +31.0.207.125.701Data SheetJuniper Secure Analytics Vulnerability Manager 1000544-001-EN   May 2016